Example of Play 
 Eleven players are sitting in a dimly lit room, on couches and comfy
chairs, facing each other in a rough circle. Spooky music plays softly
in the background. Most players are arguing, and some are listening.
They each have a secret identity, and they all know that three of them
are evil, while eight of them are good. The good players do not know
each 
 Marianna, Julian, and Alex, all sitting on the same couch and talking
amongst themselves, finally join in. “I am the Investigator,” says
Marianna, “which means I know that either Abdallah or Sarah is an evil
Minion—the Scarlet Woman, to be exact.” 
 “Well, you can’t kill me,” says Abdallah, “because I am the Saint. If
I am executed, we all lose. It’s got to be Sarah.” 
 “…that’s bullshit!” says Sarah. “I am the Fortune Teller! I am good!
You need to keep me alive so that I can gain information. Abdallah is
evil! Don’t trust him.” 
 “Well, well, well,” says Alex, “that is very convenient, isn’t it? I
am the Empath, which means I know that I am sitting next to one evil
player and one good player. Either Julian is evil or you are evil,
Sarah.” 
 “No,” says Sarah, “one of you is lying. Or maybe you are all lying! I
am good! I swear!” 
 Lewis and Evin, on the other side of the room, stay quiet. Lewis is
the Soldier and does not want to reveal his identity to the group just
yet. Evin, the Monk, is watching and listening to determine who is
valuable and who is expendable. Evin will be able to protect one player
from death tonight, so he waits, letting other people do the
talking. 
 Eventually, Douglas speaks. “I am the Chef,” he says. “I know that
two evil players are sitting next to each other. I think Marianna and
Julian are evil. Or maybe Alex and Sarah are evil. Mind you, Sarah and
Lachlan are sitting next to each other and have been whispering about
god-knows-what. Maybe that’s the evil pair. Either way, I’d like to
execute Sarah.” 
 After a few more minutes of chit-chat, the Storyteller enters the
circle of players, holding the Grimoire—the game box with all the secret
information—and asks for votes on which player will be executed today.
The group decides to kill Sarah, despite her protests. Sarah, who was
not the Demon, dies. Since the Demon is still alive, the game continues.
The day ends, and night begins. 
 The Storyteller asks all players to close their eyes. The Storyteller
walks around the circle and, one by one, taps on the shoulders of
certain players. These players open their eyes to use their characters’
special abilities. Evin, the Monk, wakes up and points to Julian,
signaling that Julian is protected from the Demon’s attack tonight. The
Storyteller then signals to Evin to close his eyes again. Benjamin,
the 
 Demon, wakes up and points to Douglas, the Chef, signaling that he
wishes to attack Douglas. 
 Lachlan, the evil Poisoner, wakes up and also points to Julian, since
he’d heard Julian whisper that he is the Undertaker—a character who
learns which character died by execution. Julian is now poisoned and
will get false information tonight. Sure enough, when Julian wakes later
that night, the Storyteller signals to him that Sarah was the Drunk, a
good character, even though Sarah was actually the Scarlet Woman. 
 After the night is finished, all players open their eyes, and the
Storyteller tells the group that Douglas died during the night. 
 “Damn,” says Douglas. 
 “Aha!” says Julian. “Sarah was not the Scarlet Woman at all! She was
the Drunk! Sarah is good, which means either Abdallah or Marianna is
lying!” 
 Lachlan, the evil Poisoner, feels satisfied that the poisoned
Undertaker’s misinformation has helped the evil team recover from their
initial loss of Sarah. Lachlan says, “Amy, why don’t you tell the group
what you told me in private earlier? You are a powerful character and
could be very useful to us good folk.” 
 Amy speaks up. “I am the Slayer,” she says, interrupting a heated
conversation between Sarah, Alex, Marianna, and Julian. “I am able to
kill the Demon immediately if I can guess correctly who it is. But I
only get one shot at it.” 
 Benjamin, the Demon, says, “Good idea! I reckon that Marianna is the
Demon. She is making everyone look evil, and getting us to turn against
ourselves.” 
 “Get real. That’s total bollocks,” says Marianna. 
 “Maybe it’s Marianna,” says Amy, “but Lewis is just too quiet for my
liking. What is he hiding?” 
 “I am the Soldier!” says Lewis. “I didn’t want to say who I was
because I wanted the Demon to attack me. I am safe from the Demon.” 
 “I trust Lewis,” says Benjamin. “I’m the Washerwoman, so I know Lewis
is the Soldier.” 
 “I’ve got a good vibe on Lewis too,” says Evin, “I am the Monk, and
protected Julian last night. We need our Undertaker to survive. But he
does have shifty eyes.” 
 “But wait!” says Amy. “If Sarah is the Drunk, then that must mean
Abdallah is lying! We can’t have both a Drunk and a Saint at the same
time! It’s Abdallah!” 
 “I’m sorry, but you are mistaken,” says Abdallah. “I think that Sarah
actually is evil after all, and our Undertaker is lying. Trust me.” 
 “Nope,” says Amy, “I choose to use my Slayer ability on
Abdallah.” 
 The Storyteller enters the circle again and informs the group that,
unfortunately, the Slayer has not found her target today. “So,” says
Evin, “that means that either Abdallah is good, or Amy is lying.” 
 “I knew it!” says Benjamin. “Traitors in our midst! You just can’t
trust anyone these days.” 
 After more chit-chat of this nature, the Storyteller prompts the
group to choose a new player to execute. Then, another night begins,
where all players close their eyes, and some players open their eyes to
receive information from the Storyteller or to use their abilities while
no one else is watching. 
 If the Demon is executed by the good players, good wins. But if good
cannot solve the puzzle in time, and the Demon continues to eat player
after player each night for much longer, evil will win. What exciting
stuff! 
 What is the Town Square? 
 What is the Grimoire? 
 What Else is in the Box? 
 1 Grimoire (2 pieces) 
 1 Grimoire stand (2 pieces) 1 Town Square board 
 4 Plastic sleeves 
 1 Setup sheet (with rules sheet on back) 
 1 Traveler sheet (with rules sheet on back) 
 1 Bag 
 18 Shroud tokens 
 30 Night tokens 
 4 Info tokens 
 2 Metal clips 
 20 Life tokens 
 18 Vote tokens 
 1 Travelers & Fabled character almanac 1 Travelers & Fabled
token box 
 15 Traveler character tokens 14 Traveler reminder tokens 12 Fabled
character tokens 12 Fabled reminder tokens 
 1 Trouble Brewing character almanac 1 Trouble Brewing edition
box 
 1 Trouble Brewing night sheet 
 20 Trouble Brewing character sheets 25 Trouble Brewing character
tokens 18 Trouble Brewing reminder tokens 
 1 Bad Moon Rising character almanac 1 Bad Moon Rising edition
box 
 1 Bad Moon Rising night sheet 
 20 Bad Moon Rising character sheets 25 Bad Moon Rising character
tokens 41 Bad Moon Rising reminder tokens 
 1 Sects & Violets character almanac 1 Sects & Violets
edition box 
 1 Sects & Violets night sheet 
 20 Sects & Violets character sheets 25 Sects & Violets
character tokens 37 Sects & Violets reminder tokens 
 Running the Game 
 Setup 
 Gather your players. Get one chair per player
and arrange the chairs facing each other. A rough circle or square is
fine, as long as people are sitting in a definite clockwise or
counterclockwise order. As the Storyteller, you will need to be able to
enter and exit the circle often, so a leave a gap between two chairs.
The center of this space will need to be mostly empty—no tables or
hazards on the floor which can be tripped on. 
 Prepare the Grimoire. Clip and stand the
Grimoire by fastening the two metal clips as close as possible to the
upper and lower corners, creating a sturdy book-like container from the
game box. Unfold and assemble the black Grimoire stand and place the
Grimoire upon it, putting it where players that walk around will not
accidentally see its contents. Collect supplies of all the info, night,
and shroud tokens anywhere you like in the Grimoire. (We recommend the
bottom-left corner of the right side.) 
 Choose an edition. This box set comes with three
editions: Trouble Brewing, Bad Moon Rising, and Sects & Violets.
Choose one to play with. Uncover and add its edition box to the
bottom-left part of the Grimoire. (This will let you easily access the
character and reminder tokens you need for this game.) You’ll need 5
players or more for Trouble Brewing, and you’ll need 7 players or more
for all other editions. 
 We recommend you start with Trouble Brewing and then move on
to other editions. Likewise, we recommend you run a game or two with 5
to 10 players to get the hang of things, then try your hand at larger
games. 
 Prepare the Town Square. Place the Town Square
board on the floor in the center of the chairs. Add life tokens equal to
the number of players to the Town Square. Put a pile of vote tokens in
the center of the Town Square. Place the Traveler sheet partially under
the Town Square, so it shows the number of Townsfolk, Outsiders and
Minions. 
 Read the rules to any new players. The rules sheet describes all
the major things that a new player will need to know to start playing.
Simply read out the text written on this sheet to the group, or let
those who want to read it privately do so. 
 Part of the rules sheet will prompt you to talk about various
hand signals. You’ll want to demonstrate these hand signals as you go,
since some players learn visually. 
 If you wish, you can read out the part of the rules sheet
that talks about nominations and executions now, but most players will
learn this better if you read it out later on, when the first nomination
for execution begins. 
 There is a duplicate rules sheet on the reverse side of the
Traveler sheet, kept under the Town Square. To save time, get a veteran
player to read out the rules from this sheet, so you don’t have to.
While they are explaining the rules, you can set up the
game. 
 Secretly choose characters. Take all of the
Townsfolk character tokens out of the chosen edition box, and choose the
appropriate number for the number of players, as listed on the setup
sheet. Put these character tokens in the left side of the Grimoire, and
return all remaining Townsfolk character tokens to the edition box.
Then, do the same for any Outsiders, Minions, and the Demon. Do this
secretly— the players do not know which characters are in the game. If
there are more than 15 players in this game, then any excess players
must volunteer to be Travelers. Travelers have enormous power but less
responsibility, and they often help the game go quicker. Give these
volunteers the Traveler sheet, so that they can choose which Travelers
they wish to be. You’ll find more information about them in “Traveler Characters” . For your first
game, we do not recommend that you include Travelers. 
 Choosing Characters. The characters you choose will greatly
affect how the game plays. Choose what you think will be fun, what will
interact well, or simply what you feel capable of handling. If it is
your first game, and you don’t know which characters to include,
consider the following (for an 8-player game) or alter it to suit your
style: 
 1) Chef, Empath, Fortune Teller, Undertaker, Virgin, Drunk
(Investigator), Scarlet Woman, Imp. This setup has a lot of information
for the good team, and is a great way to get people engaged and talking
immediately, but also is relatively safe for evil players that are
unsure of how to bluff well. It will be a chaotic game that is a blast
for new players. Remember to give the drunk Investigator false
information, and remember that they cannot die by nominating the
Virgin! 
 2) Slayer, Ravenkeeper, Mayor, Fortune Teller, Empath, Saint,
Poisoner, Imp. This will be a much quieter game, as players slowly
figure out if the Saint, Slayer, and Mayor are telling the truth. The
Poisoner, who has many juicy targets, can certainly cause some chaos.
However, the game may be a quick one if the Slayer is savvy, if the
Saint is not savvy enough, or if the Poisoner cannot find the Empath and
Fortune Teller in time. If the Mayor is attacked at night, remember to
kill another player instead—perhaps the Ravenkeeper? 
 3) Washerwoman, Slayer, Virgin, Undertaker, Fortune Teller,
Recluse, Spy, Imp. This is a more advanced setup, requiring some deeper
logic from the players, but can be very rewarding if they figure it out.
Remember that the Recluse can register as the Demon to the Fortune
Teller, Undertaker, and Slayer! And remember that the Spy can register
as a Townsfolk to the Virgin, Undertaker, and Washerwoman! 
 Add and remove characters. If any chosen character
tokens show an orange leaf, you will need to add or remove some
character tokens, as described by its almanac entry. On the character
token, the text in square brackets like [this] briefly describes how to
alter the characters in play this game. This happens once, during the
setup phase, and does not happen again once the game is underway. After
adding and removing character tokens, the number of character tokens
will always equal the number of players. 
 The Baron adds two Outsiders to the game, but removes two
Townsfolk. Other characters, such as the Drunk, do similar
things. 
 Add reminder tokens to the Grimoire. If any chosen
character tokens show green leaves at the top of its character token,
add the reminder tokens for that character next to the character token
in the Grimoire. Return all remaining reminder tokens to the edition
box. The reminder tokens for a character show the same symbol as its
character token. The number of green leaves equals the number of
reminder tokens that character has: If there’s one leaf, add one
reminder. If there are three, add three. 
 The Investigator character token shows a magnifying glass
symbol, and both of the Investigator’s reminder tokens show the same
symbol. 
 Pass out character tokens. Shuffle the character
tokens and put them in the bag. Then, each player takes 1 character
token out of the bag, and then passes the bag to the next player.
Continue this until each player has one token. Each player looks at
their character token in secret, revealing it to no one else. 
 Add the character tokens to the Grimoire. 
Collect all the character tokens from the players, and place them in
your Grimoire so they match the seating positions of the
players. 
 The safest way to collect character tokens is to ask all
players to hold their hand out, with their character token in hand, felt
side up, face side down. You can simply grab it from their hand, making
sure nobody sees a flash of color as you do so. 
 The exact position of each character token in the Grimoire is
up to you. If three players are all sitting on the same couch, it is
more helpful to group those three tokens close together, in order to
remind yourself that they are the couch triplet. As long as the
clockwise or counterclockwise order of the players is the same in the
Grimoire as it is in the physical space, you’ll be fine. 
 Now you’re ready to begin! 
 The Night 
 Preparing the Night 
 Before running the night phase itself, you’ll want to prepare a few
things first. Ideally, nights should go quickly and smoothly with a
minimum of thinking. If you prepare your night well, you’ve done all
your thinking beforehand! 
 First, make sure your night sheet is set up properly. Put it on the
right side of the Grimoire. + If this is the first night phase of the
game, use the “First Night” side (shown in top-right) of the night
sheet. + If this is not the first night phase, use the “Other Nights”
side. 
 Add and remove any reminder tokens you need. Place
reminders you’ll need tonight in the appropriate positions on the left
side of the Grimoire. Place any reminders you won’t need tonight on the
right side of the Grimoire. 
 Reminders. The ways you’ll use each character’s reminder
tokens are described in their entry in their character almanac, although
they should be fairly obvious. For example, you’ll place the two
Washerwoman reminders by the character tokens of the two players that
the Washerwoman will learn about during the first night. 
 Place night tokens on the night sheet by each character who is acting
tonight and by the “Dawn” line. Also, add night tokens in the special
situations below. 
 If this is the first night of the game and there are 7 or more
players, add night tokens to the “Minion info” and “Demon info” entries
on the night sheet. (This will remind you to wake all the Minions and
show them the Demon, and to wake the Demon and show them the
Minions.) 
 If this is not the first night and there are Travelers in play,
then place a night token by the “Dusk” entry of the night sheet. (At
dusk, some Travelers act—a night token here can help you remember to
wake them.) 
 Leaves: The easiest way to know which characters need night
tokens is to look for leaves on their character tokens. A leaf on the
left side of the token means that character acts on the first night. A
leaf on the right side means that the character acts on all other
nights. 
 Planning: This is also a good time to think briefly about
what you might need to do in the coming night. For example, if this is
the first night, you will show the Demon three not-in-play character
tokens to help them bluff. Which tokens will you show them? If a player
is drunk and will act tonight, what misinformation will you give them?
Knowing what you want to do in advance will help the nights go quicker,
which keeps players engaged. 
 Players may talk amongst themselves freely while you are planning the
night phase. 
 Running the Night 
 During the night phase, players keep their eyes closed. Some players
will wake, opening their eyes, to learn information or use powerful
abilities. Typically the Demon attacks at night, killing one or more
players or otherwise causing havoc. 
 To start the night, tell the players to close their eyes. Say “All
players, eyes closed,” or something similar, and check that their eyes
are closed if needed. Now, do the actions on the night sheet from top to
bottom. 
 If it is the first night and you are playing with 7 or more players,
do these two steps: 
 Wake all the Minions and show them the Demon. Let the Minions
make eye contact so they know who each other are. Then, show each Minion
the “This Is the Demon” info token and point at the Demon. Make sure all
Minions can see who you are pointing to. Then, put all the Minions to
sleep. 
 Wake the Demon and show all Minions. Wake the Demon, show them
the “These are your Minions” info token, then point to each Minion.
Then, show the Demon 
 the “These characters are not in play” info token, and show the Demon
any three good character tokens that are not in play. 
 Bluffing. Showing these character tokens will help the Demon
bluff as one of them. It is usually best to show two Townsfolk and one
Outsider token to the Demon—that way, they can choose among all sorts of
characters to bluff as. They can, of course, ignore this advice and
bluff as any character they want. 
 Wake each player who gets to use their character’s ability tonight,
one at a time from top to bottom on the night sheet. Resolve their
ability, and then put the player to sleep. 
 As characters act, place reminders as needed. A yellow circle next to
a character on the night sheet means you may need to put that
character’s reminder token somewhere. For example, after the Poisoner
chooses someone, put the Poisoner’s “Poisoned” reminder by the chosen
player’s character token, to remind you that they’re poisoned. 
 When you reach dawn, simply wait five to ten seconds. Then, declare
that the players can open their eyes. Saying “All players, eyes open,”
or something similar does the trick. 
 If any players died at night, declare immediately which players died
at night. You’ll learn about death later in “Execution and Death” . 
 Doing Dawn Well. The small wait at dawn prevents players from
knowing for sure whether they were the last to act at night. Likewise,
declaring who died immediately prevents players from quickly shouting
out “I died! I wasn’t woken last night!” which helps prove that they’re
a particular character. 
 How do I know who to wake up at night? The Storyteller will
need to judge from the state of the game whether they need to wake a
player up, even if they have a night token on the night sheet. The
description of the character itself will say when they will wake up
through the course of play. 
 For example, the Ravenkeeper gets a night token because they
might need to be woken, but might not. If the Demon kills the
Ravenkeeper, you will wake the Ravenkeeper later that night to give them
their information. If the Demon does not, simply skip the Ravenkeeper’s
action that night—there is no need to wake them for no reason. 
 For another example, the Gossip’s ability may kill a player, but
the Gossip player does not wake to learn that this has
happened. 
 How do abilities work? Usually, a player wakes, then either
chooses a player to affect or receives some information from you via
hand signals. Each character’s ability is listed on the night sheet and
described in full detail in the appropriate character almanac. You’ll
learn far more about abilities in “Abilities” , but don’t move on to this
section until you’ve played a game or two first. 
 Some characters can kill other characters at night. If a
character dies at night before they would wake up, that character won’t
wake up. Death is explored further in “Execution and
Death” . 
 Communicating at Night 
 You will use hand signals to communicate to some players at night.
Since all players will have their eyes closed during the night, and the
player that acts to wake does so in secret, you will be keeping as quiet
as possible so as to not reveal their identity to the other players. Any
complex questions can be handled in private during the day phase. You
can give all these signals with one hand, while the other holds the
Grimoire. 
 Eyes Open: To wake a player during the night,
gently tap them twice on either the shoulder or the knee. 
 Eyes Closed: To put a player back to sleep during
the night, put your hand over your eyes. 
 Yes: To signal “yes” to a player, nod your
head. 
 No: To signal “no” to a player, shake your
head. 
 Good: To signal that a player is good, give a
thumbs-up gesture. 
 Evil: To signal that a player is evil, give a
thumbs-down gesture. 
 A Number: To signal a number to a player, hold up
that many fingers. To signal a zero, touch your thumb to the tips of
your other fingers, forming a “0” shape. 
 Indicate a Specific Player: To indicate a specific
player, point to that player. 
 Indicate a Specific Character: To indicate a
specific character, show that character token or point to the character
icon on their character sheet. (Make sure you hold the token close
enough to player so they can see it—a foot or less is generally close
enough.) 
 If a player is the Empath (who wakes each night to learn how
many of their neighbors are evil), and that Empath is sitting next to 1
evil player, the entire process is as follows: + Tap
twice on the Empath’s knee to wake them. Show the finger signal for “1.”
Put your hand over your eyes, to let them know they are to go back to
sleep. Or if a player is the Ravenkeeper (who wakes up
and chooses a player, and learns their character), the entire process is
as follows: + Tap twice on the Ravenkeeper’s knee to
wake them. The Ravenkeeper will point to a player. When they have done
so, point to that player too (just to confirm that you understand who
they are pointing at), then remove that player’s character token from
the Grimoire and show it to the Ravenkeeper. Once they have seen it, put
the character token back into the Grimoire, then put your hand over your
eyes to put the Ravenkeeper back to sleep. 
 The Day 
 During the day phase, players talk to each 