 
 Blood on the Clocktower Rulebook 
 Blood on the Clocktower Rulebook 
 Last Updated August 09, 2022 08:15 AM PDT 
 Steven
Medway Copyright 2021 
 How to Use These Books 
 You are the Storyteller. You are the boss. You will
be the person who reads the rules, who referees the game, and who
creates the chaotic and fun situations in which your players will play.
Many people find the Storyteller role the most creative, rewarding, and
interesting of all. This book is written for you, and you will need to
read some of it before running your first game. 
 The players you will guide don’t need to read any of this rulebook,
nor any of the almanacs or sheets included. Part of your role as
Storyteller is to familiarize them with the basic rules at the start of
their first game. That said, players are still welcome to read whatever
tickles their fancy in these rulebooks—there is nothing secret here. If
you’ve already played Blood on the Clocktower and have a rough idea of
how the Grimoire works, you can skip ahead to “Running the Game” . If not… 
 To prepare for your first game: 
 Read “Understanding the
Basics” . This chapter will give you an overview of Blood on the
Clocktower so you can understand what kind of game it is. If you are
already familiar with social deduction games such as Werewolf or Mafia,
you will find some familiar territory here. 
 Read “Running the Game” . This chapter
explains the basic rules of the game. You will learn how to start a
game, how to end it, and what to do in between. 
 Read the Trouble Brewing character almanac. Trouble Brewing
is the most basic edition of Clocktower, and we highly recommend you
start with it. Take a look at the characters and get a sense of each
one. You don’t need to know every detail of every character
combination—just enough to get a rough idea of how they work. 
 Once you’ve done this, you are ready to run your first game! 
 While running a game, if you need to quickly clarify a rule, read
the Glossary . The Glossary is much more than
just a definition of terms—all the important game rules are listed there
alphabetically. 
 If anyone wants more information about how a character works,
refer to their entry in the appropriate Character Almanac, which
explains each character’s weird and wonderful nuances, as well as
interactions with other characters in that almanac. After running your
first game or two, you’ll find it handy to read further: 
 “The Nitty-Gritty” includes guidelines
for interpreting the rules and the characters’ abilities as well as a
cornucopia of information on the types of characters available. 
 “How to Be a Great
Storyteller” gives tips and tools to help you take your games to the
next level. 
 “Going Further” describes how to
create custom lists of characters, gives advice on growing your
Clocktower group, and catalogues many new editions— collections of
characters you can add to your game. Reading these sections will help
you make your games smoother, massively more fun, infinitely varied,
subtly weird, and fiendishly challenging! 
 You can read the Bad Moon Rising and Sects &
Violets almanacs once you wish to run them. Don’t worry about these
editions until then. 
 Your understanding is more important than blindly following a
procedure. Instead of simply listing the game rules in one dry
chunk and hoping that you absorb it all at once, this rulebook is
written in such a way that you learn the rules as you learn what you
need to do as the Storyteller. You can expand your knowledge and add
flair to your games once you’ve got the basics down. 
 Understanding the Basics 
 What is This Game? 
 A long time ago in the sleepy town of Ravenswood
Bluff, during a hellish thunderstorm, on the stroke of midnight a scream
echoes down the vine-covered stones of its twisting alleyways. 
 The startled townsfolk rush to the town square to investigate, and
find that the local Storyteller has been murdered, their body impaled on
the hour hand of the town clock, blood dripping onto the cobblestones
below. Curiosity turns to fear, as it soon becomes obvious to all that a
demon is on the loose—killing by night and taking on human form by
day. 
 Each of the townsfolk has some information, but the demon and its
evil minions are spreading lies to confuse and breed suspicion over the
identity of the fiend. Will the good folk put the pieces of the puzzle
together in time? Or will evil overrun this once peaceful town? 
 Blood on the Clocktower is a social game of deduction and
deception, lies and logic, murder and mystery, for 5 to 20 players.
During the day, players talk and socialize as a group, or go into
private conversations to gather information, share what they know, or
spread lies. During the night, players close their eyes, whilst some
good players wake to learn valuable information and the demon and its
minions wake up to spread their mischief. 
 Each player is a unique character, with a powerful ability to use or
a troublesome penalty to avoid. Clocktower is mostly a talking game,
with almost no physical pieces for the players to use. Players win or
lose by their wits, their insight, and their ability to convince others
about who should live and who should die. 
 Blood on the Clocktower games usually run for 30 to 90
minutes, and you may find yourselves playing several games one after the
other. 
 Example of Play 
 Eleven players are sitting in a dimly lit room, on couches and comfy
chairs, facing each other in a rough circle. Spooky music plays softly
in the background. Most players are arguing, and some are listening.
They each have a secret identity, and they all know that three of them
are evil, while eight of them are good. The good players do not know
each 
 Marianna, Julian, and Alex, all sitting on the same couch and talking
amongst themselves, finally join in. “I am the Investigator,” says
Marianna, “which means I know that either Abdallah or Sarah is an evil
Minion—the Scarlet Woman, to be exact.” 
 “Well, you can’t kill me,” says Abdallah, “because I am the Saint. If
I am executed, we all lose. It’s got to be Sarah.” 
 “…that’s bullshit!” says Sarah. “I am the Fortune Teller! I am good!
You need to keep me alive so that I can gain information. Abdallah is
evil! Don’t trust him.” 
 “Well, well, well,” says Alex, “that is very convenient, isn’t it? I
am the Empath, which means I know that I am sitting next to one evil
player and one good player. Either Julian is evil or you are evil,
Sarah.” 
 “No,” says Sarah, “one of you is lying. Or maybe you are all lying! I
am good! I swear!” 
 Lewis and Evin, on the other side of the room, stay quiet. Lewis is
the Soldier and does not want to reveal his identity to the group just
yet. Evin, the Monk, is watching and listening to determine who is
valuable and who is expendable. Evin will be able to protect one player
from death tonight, so he waits, letting other people do the
talking. 
 Eventually, Douglas speaks. “I am the Chef,” he says. “I know that
two evil players are sitting next to each other. I think Marianna and
Julian are evil. Or maybe Alex and Sarah are evil. Mind you, Sarah and
Lachlan are sitting next to each other and have been whispering about
god-knows-what. Maybe that’s the evil pair. Either way, I’d like to
execute Sarah.” 
 After a few more minutes of chit-chat, the Storyteller enters the
circle of players, holding the Grimoire—the game box with all the secret
information—and asks for votes on which player will be executed today.
The group decides to kill Sarah, despite her protests. Sarah, who was
not the Demon, dies. Since the Demon is still alive, the game continues.
The day ends, and night begins. 
 The Storyteller asks all players to close their eyes. The Storyteller
walks around the circle and, one by one, taps on the shoulders of
certain players. These players open their eyes to use their characters’
special abilities. Evin, the Monk, wakes up and points to Julian,
signaling that Julian is protected from the Demon’s attack tonight. The
Storyteller then signals to Evin to close his eyes again. Benjamin,
the 
 Demon, wakes up and points to Douglas, the Chef, signaling that he
wishes to attack Douglas. 
 Lachlan, the evil Poisoner, wakes up and also points to Julian, since
he’d heard Julian whisper that he is the Undertaker—a character who
learns which character died by execution. Julian is now poisoned and
will get false information tonight. Sure enough, when Julian wakes later
that night, the Storyteller signals to him that Sarah was the Drunk, a
good character, even though Sarah was actually the Scarlet Woman. 
 After the night is finished, all players open their eyes, and the
Storyteller tells the group that Douglas died during the night. 
 “Damn,” says Douglas. 
 “Aha!” says Julian. “Sarah was not the Scarlet Woman at all! She was
the Drunk! Sarah is good, which means either Abdallah or Marianna is
lying!” 
 Lachlan, the evil Poisoner, feels satisfied that the poisoned
Undertaker’s misinformation has helped the evil team recover from their
initial loss of Sarah. Lachlan says, “Amy, why don’t you tell the group
what you told me in private earlier? You are a powerful character and
could be very useful to us good folk.” 
 Amy speaks up. “I am the Slayer,” she says, interrupting a heated
conversation between Sarah, Alex, Marianna, and Julian. “I am able to
kill the Demon immediately if I can guess correctly who it is. But I
only get one shot at it.” 
 Benjamin, the Demon, says, “Good idea! I reckon that Marianna is the
Demon. She is making everyone look evil, and getting us to turn against
ourselves.” 
 “Get real. That’s total bollocks,” says Marianna. 
 “Maybe it’s Marianna,” says Amy, “but Lewis is just too quiet for my
liking. What is he hiding?” 
 “I am the Soldier!” says Lewis. “I didn’t want to say who I was
because I wanted the Demon to attack me. I am safe from the Demon.” 
 “I trust Lewis,” says Benjamin. “I’m the Washerwoman, so I know Lewis
is the Soldier.” 
 “I’ve got a good vibe on Lewis too,” says Evin, “I am the Monk, and
protected Julian last night. We need our Undertaker to survive. But he
does have shifty eyes.” 
 “But wait!” says Amy. “If Sarah is the Drunk, then that must mean
Abdallah is lying! We can’t have both a Drunk and a Saint at the same
time! It’s Abdallah!” 
 “I’m sorry, but you are mistaken,” says Abdallah. “I think that Sarah
actually is evil after all, and our Undertaker is lying. Trust me.” 
 “Nope,” says Amy, “I choose to use my Slayer ability on
Abdallah.” 
 The Storyteller enters the circle again and informs the group that,
unfortunately, the Slayer has not found her target today. “So,” says
Evin, “that means that either Abdallah is good, or Amy is lying.” 
 “I knew it!” says Benjamin. “Traitors in our midst! You just can’t
trust anyone these days.” 
 After more chit-chat of this nature, the Storyteller prompts the
group to choose a new player to execute. Then, another night begins,
where all players close their eyes, and some players open their eyes to
receive information from the Storyteller or to use their abilities while
no one else is watching. 
 If the Demon is executed by the good players, good wins. But if good
cannot solve the puzzle in time, and the Demon continues to eat player
after player each night for much longer, evil will win. What exciting
stuff! 
 What is the Town Square? 
 What is the Grimoire? 
 What Else is in the Box? 
 1 Grimoire (2 pieces) 
 1 Grimoire stand (2 pieces) 1 Town Square board 
 4 Plastic sleeves 
 1 Setup sheet (with rules sheet on back) 
 1 Traveler sheet (with rules sheet on back) 
 1 Bag 
 18 Shroud tokens 
 30 Night tokens 
 4 Info tokens 
 2 Metal clips 
 20 Life tokens 
 18 Vote tokens 
 1 Travelers & Fabled character almanac 1 Travelers & Fabled
token box 
 15 Traveler character tokens 14 Traveler reminder tokens 12 Fabled
character tokens 12 Fabled reminder tokens 
 1 Trouble Brewing character almanac 1 Trouble Brewing edition
box 
 1 Trouble Brewing night sheet 
 20 Trouble Brewing character sheets 25 Trouble Brewing character
tokens 18 Trouble Brewing reminder tokens 
 1 Bad Moon Rising character almanac 1 Bad Moon Rising edition
box 
 1 Bad Moon Rising night sheet 
 20 Bad Moon Rising character sheets 25 Bad Moon Rising character
tokens 41 Bad Moon Rising reminder tokens 
 1 Sects & Violets character almanac 1 Sects & Violets
edition box 
 1 Sects & Violets night sheet 
 20 Sects & Violets character sheets 25 Sects & Violets
character tokens 37 Sects & Violets reminder tokens 
 Running the Game 
 Setup 
 Gather your players. Get one chair per player
and arrange the chairs facing each other. A rough circle or square is
fine, as long as people are sitting in a definite clockwise or
counterclockwise order. As the Storyteller, you will need to be able to
enter and exit the circle often, so a leave a gap between two chairs.
The center of this space will need to be mostly empty—no tables or
hazards on the floor which can be tripped on. 
 Prepare the Grimoire. Clip and stand the
Grimoire by fastening the two metal clips as close as possible to the
upper and lower corners, creating a sturdy book-like container from the
game box. Unfold and assemble the black Grimoire stand and place the
Grimoire upon it, putting it where players that walk around will not
accidentally see its contents. Collect supplies of all the info, night,
and shroud tokens anywhere you like in the Grimoire. (We recommend the
bottom-left corner of the right side.) 
 Choose an edition. This box set comes with three
editions: Trouble Brewing, Bad Moon Rising, and Sects & Violets.
Choose one to play with. Uncover and add its edition box to the
bottom-left part of the Grimoire. (This will let you easily access the
character and reminder tokens you need for this game.) You’ll need 5
players or more for Trouble Brewing, and you’ll need 7 players or more
for all other editions. 
 We recommend you start with Trouble Brewing and then move on
to other editions. Likewise, we recommend you run a game or two with 5
to 10 players to get the hang of things, then try your hand at larger
games. 
 Prepare the Town Square. Place the Town Square
board on the floor in the center of the chairs. Add life tokens equal to
the number of players to the Town Square. Put a pile of vote tokens in
the center of the Town Square. Place the Traveler sheet partially under
the Town Square, so it shows the number of Townsfolk, Outsiders and
Minions. 
 Read the rules to any new players. The rules sheet describes all
the major things that a new player will need to know to start playing.
Simply read out the text written on this sheet to the group, or let
those who want to read it privately do so. 
 Part of the rules sheet will prompt you to talk about various
hand signals. You’ll want to demonstrate these hand signals as you go,
since some players learn visually. 
 If you wish, you can read out the part of the rules sheet
that talks about nominations and executions now, but most players will
learn this better if you read it out later on, when the first nomination
for execution begins. 
 There is a duplicate rules sheet on the reverse side of the
Traveler sheet, kept under the Town Square. To save time, get a veteran
player to read out the rules from this sheet, so you don’t have to.
While they are explaining the rules, you can set up the
game. 
 Secretly choose characters. Take all of the
Townsfolk character tokens out of the chosen edition box, and choose the
appropriate number for the number of players, as listed on the setup
sheet. Put these character tokens in the left side of the Grimoire, and
return all remaining Townsfolk character tokens to the edition box.
Then, do the same for any Outsiders, Minions, and the Demon. Do this
secretly— the players do not know which characters are in the game. If
there are more than 15 players in this game, then any excess players
must volunteer to be Travelers. Travelers have enormous power but less
responsibility, and they often help the game go quicker. Give these
volunteers the Traveler sheet, so that they can choose which Travelers
they wish to be. You’ll find more information about them in “Traveler Characters” . For your first
game, we do not recommend that you include Travelers. 
 Choosing Characters. The characters you choose will greatly
affect how the game plays. Choose what you think will be fun, what will
interact well, or simply what you feel capable of handling. If it is
your first game, and you don’t know which characters to include,
consider the following (for an 8-player game) or alter it to suit your
style: 
 1) Chef, Empath, Fortune Teller, Undertaker, Virgin, Drunk
(Investigator), Scarlet Woman, Imp. This setup has a lot of information
for the good team, and is a great way to get people engaged and talking
immediately, but also is relatively safe for evil players that are
unsure of how to bluff well. It will be a chaotic game that is a blast
for new players. Remember to give the drunk Investigator false
information, and remember that they cannot die by nominating the
Virgin! 
 2) Slayer, Ravenkeeper, Mayor, Fortune Teller, Empath, Saint,
Poisoner, Imp. This will be a much quieter game, as players slowly
figure out if the Saint, Slayer, and Mayor are telling the truth. The
Poisoner, who has many juicy targets, can certainly cause some chaos.
However, the game may be a quick one if the Slayer is savvy, if the
Saint is not savvy enough, or if the Poisoner cannot find the Empath and
Fortune Teller in time. If the Mayor is attacked at night, remember to
kill another player instead—perhaps the Ravenkeeper? 
 3) Washerwoman, Slayer, Virgin, Undertaker, Fortune Teller,
Recluse, Spy, Imp. This is a more advanced setup, requiring some deeper
logic from the players, but can be very rewarding if they figure it out.
Remember that the Recluse can register as the Demon to the Fortune
Teller, Undertaker, and Slayer! And remember that the Spy can register
as a Townsfolk to the Virgin, Undertaker, and Washerwoman! 
 Add and remove characters. If any chosen character
tokens show an orange leaf, you will need to add or remove some
character tokens, as described by its almanac entry. On the character
token, the text in square brackets like [this] briefly describes how to
alter the characters in play this game. This happens once, during the
setup phase, and does not happen again once the game is underway. After
adding and removing character tokens, the number of character tokens
will always equal the number of players. 
 The Baron adds two Outsiders to the game, but removes two
Townsfolk. Other characters, such as the Drunk, do similar
things. 
 Add reminder tokens to the Grimoire. If any chosen
character tokens show green leaves at the top of its character token,
add the reminder tokens for that character next to the character token
in the Grimoire. Return all remaining reminder tokens to the edition
box. The reminder tokens for a character show the same symbol as its
character token. The number of green leaves equals the number of
reminder tokens that character has: If there’s one leaf, add one
reminder. If there are three, add three. 
 The Investigator character token shows a magnifying glass
symbol, and both of the Investigator’s reminder tokens show the same
symbol. 
 Pass out character tokens. Shuffle the character
tokens and put them in the bag. Then, each player takes 1 character
token out of the bag, and then passes the bag to the next player.
Continue this until each player has one token. Each player looks at
their character token in secret, revealing it to no one else. 
 Add the character tokens to the Grimoire. 
Collect all the character tokens from the players, and place them in
your Grimoire so they match the seating positions of the
players. 
 The safest way to collect character tokens is to ask all
players to hold their hand out, with their character token in hand, felt
side up, face side down. You can simply grab it from their hand, making
sure nobody sees a flash of color as you do so. 
 The exact position of each character token in the Grimoire is
up to you. If three players are all sitting on the same couch, it is
more helpful to group those three tokens close together, in order to
remind yourself that they are the couch triplet. As long as the
clockwise or counterclockwise order of the players is the same in the
Grimoire as it is in the physical space, you’ll be fine. 
 Now you’re ready to begin! 
 The Night 
 Preparing the Night 
 Before running the night phase itself, you’ll want to prepare a few
things first. Ideally, nights should go quickly and smoothly with a
minimum of thinking. If you prepare your night well, you’ve done all
your thinking beforehand! 
 First, make sure your night sheet is set up properly. Put it on the
right side of the Grimoire. + If this is the first night phase of the
game, use the “First Night” side (shown in top-right) of the night
sheet. + If this is not the first night phase, use the “Other Nights”
side. 
 Add and remove any reminder tokens you need. Place
reminders you’ll need tonight in the appropriate positions on the left
side of the Grimoire. Place any reminders you won’t need tonight on the
right side of the Grimoire. 
 Reminders. The ways you’ll use each character’s reminder
tokens are described in their entry in their character almanac, although
they should be fairly obvious. For example, you’ll place the two
Washerwoman reminders by the character tokens of the two players that
the Washerwoman will learn about during the first night. 
 Place night tokens on the night sheet by each character who is acting
tonight and by the “Dawn” line. Also, add night tokens in the special
situations below. 
 If this is the first night of the game and there are 7 or more
players, add night tokens to the “Minion info” and “Demon info” entries
on the night sheet. (This will remind you to wake all the Minions and
show them the Demon, and to wake the Demon and show them the
Minions.) 
 If this is not the first night and there are Travelers in play,
then place a night token by the “Dusk” entry of the night sheet. (At
dusk, some Travelers act—a night token here can help you remember to
wake them.) 
 Leaves: The easiest way to know which characters need night
tokens is to look for leaves on their character tokens. A leaf on the
left side of the token means that character acts on the first night. A
leaf on the right side means that the character acts on all other
nights. 
 Planning: This is also a good time to think briefly about
what you might need to do in the coming night. For example, if this is
the first night, you will show the Demon three not-in-play character
tokens to help them bluff. Which tokens will you show them? If a player
is drunk and will act tonight, what misinformation will you give them?
Knowing what you want to do in advance will help the nights go quicker,
which keeps players engaged. 
 Players may talk amongst themselves freely while you are planning the
night phase. 
 Running the Night 
 During the night phase, players keep their eyes closed. Some players
will wake, opening their eyes, to learn information or use powerful
abilities. Typically the Demon attacks at night, killing one or more
players or otherwise causing havoc. 
 To start the night, tell the players to close their eyes. Say “All
players, eyes closed,” or something similar, and check that their eyes
are closed if needed. Now, do the actions on the night sheet from top to
bottom. 
 If it is the first night and you are playing with 7 or more players,
do these two steps: 
 Wake all the Minions and show them the Demon. Let the Minions
make eye contact so they know who each other are. Then, show each Minion
the “This Is the Demon” info token and point at the Demon. Make sure all
Minions can see who you are pointing to. Then, put all the Minions to
sleep. 
 Wake the Demon and show all Minions. Wake the Demon, show them
the “These are your Minions” info token, then point to each Minion.
Then, show the Demon 
 the “These characters are not in play” info token, and show the Demon
any three good character tokens that are not in play. 
 Bluffing. Showing these character tokens will help the Demon
bluff as one of them. It is usually best to show two Townsfolk and one
Outsider token to the Demon—that way, they can choose among all sorts of
characters to bluff as. They can, of course, ignore this advice and
bluff as any character they want. 
 Wake each player who gets to use their character’s ability tonight,
one at a time from top to bottom on the night sheet. Resolve their
ability, and then put the player to sleep. 
 As characters act, place reminders as needed. A yellow circle next to
a character on the night sheet means you may need to put that
character’s reminder token somewhere. For example, after the Poisoner
chooses someone, put the Poisoner’s “Poisoned” reminder by the chosen
player’s character token, to remind you that they’re poisoned. 
 When you reach dawn, simply wait five to ten seconds. Then, declare
that the players can open their eyes. Saying “All players, eyes open,”
or something similar does the trick. 
 If any players died at night, declare immediately which players died
at night. You’ll learn about death later in “Execution and Death” . 
 Doing Dawn Well. The small wait at dawn prevents players from
knowing for sure whether they were the last to act at night. Likewise,
declaring who died immediately prevents players from quickly shouting
out “I died! I wasn’t woken last night!” which helps prove that they’re
a particular character. 
 How do I know who to wake up at night? The Storyteller will
need to judge from the state of the game whether they need to wake a
player up, even if they have a night token on the night sheet. The
description of the character itself will say when they will wake up
through the course of play. 
 For example, the Ravenkeeper gets a night token because they
might need to be woken, but might not. If the Demon kills the
Ravenkeeper, you will wake the Ravenkeeper later that night to give them
their information. If the Demon does not, simply skip the Ravenkeeper’s
action that night—there is no need to wake them for no reason. 
 For another example, the Gossip’s ability may kill a player, but
the Gossip player does not wake to learn that this has
happened. 
 How do abilities work? Usually, a player wakes, then either
chooses a player to affect or receives some information from you via
hand signals. Each character’s ability is listed on the night sheet and
described in full detail in the appropriate character almanac. You’ll
learn far more about abilities in “Abilities” , but don’t move on to this
section until you’ve played a game or two first. 
 Some characters can kill other characters at night. If a
character dies at night before they would wake up, that character won’t
wake up. Death is explored further in “Execution and
Death” . 
 Communicating at Night 
 You will use hand signals to communicate to some players at night.
Since all players will have their eyes closed during the night, and the
player that acts to wake does so in secret, you will be keeping as quiet
as possible so as to not reveal their identity to the other players. Any
complex questions can be handled in private during the day phase. You
can give all these signals with one hand, while the other holds the
Grimoire. 
 Eyes Open: To wake a player during the night,
gently tap them twice on either the shoulder or the knee. 
 Eyes Closed: To put a player back to sleep during
the night, put your hand over your eyes. 
 Yes: To signal “yes” to a player, nod your
head. 
 No: To signal “no” to a player, shake your
head. 
 Good: To signal that a player is good, give a
thumbs-up gesture. 
 Evil: To signal that a player is evil, give a
thumbs-down gesture. 
 A Number: To signal a number to a player, hold up
that many fingers. To signal a zero, touch your thumb to the tips of
your other fingers, forming a “0” shape. 
 Indicate a Specific Player: To indicate a specific
player, point to that player. 
 Indicate a Specific Character: To indicate a
specific character, show that character token or point to the character
icon on their character sheet. (Make sure you hold the token close
enough to player so they can see it—a foot or less is generally close
enough.) 
 If a player is the Empath (who wakes each night to learn how
many of their neighbors are evil), and that Empath is sitting next to 1
evil player, the entire process is as follows: + Tap
twice on the Empath’s knee to wake them. Show the finger signal for “1.”
Put your hand over your eyes, to let them know they are to go back to
sleep. Or if a player is the Ravenkeeper (who wakes up
and chooses a player, and learns their character), the entire process is
as follows: + Tap twice on the Ravenkeeper’s knee to
wake them. The Ravenkeeper will point to a player. When they have done
so, point to that player too (just to confirm that you understand who
they are pointing at), then remove that player’s character token from
the Grimoire and show it to the Ravenkeeper. Once they have seen it, put
the character token back into the Grimoire, then put your hand over your
eyes to put the Ravenkeeper back to sleep. 
 The Day 
 During the day phase, players talk to each other. They may scheme,
lie, share information, or stay silent and try to puzzle out who is who.
Then, they vote on who will be executed. This is the main part of the
game, mostly handled by the players themselves. 
 Discussion 
 To begin, just let the players talk amongst themselves. There is very
little that you need to do. Players may say whatever they want, or may
say nothing at all. 
 Generally speaking, good players will reveal their characters, and
any information they have, while evil players will pretend to be good
characters, and give out bogus information. Sometimes good players will
be deceptive too. It is up to them. 
 Players may talk to the group, whisper to each other, or even leave
their seats to talk in secret with other players. Encourage them to stay
in the circle as they’re doing this, though. 
 Questions? Some players will have questions for you. You will
have already read out the main rules for while setting up, but people do
forget. Or a player may ask about how a particular character works.
Unlike other games, Clocktower does not require all players to know all
the rules before playing. We emphasize participation, so please be as
helpful as possible with players who have questions. If you don’t know
the answer, look in the Glossary 
 or in the appropriate entry of the character
almanac. 
 You can answer questions either publicly, so that all the
group hears, or privately. Players with questions about their
character’s ability may want to talk in private with you, so that no one
else knows who they are or what question they asked. 
 Nominating and Voting 
 Call for nominations when you feel it is appropriate. Doing so after
five to ten minutes of chit-chat is usually about right, but some groups
may want to talk for longer or shorter. Make sure everyone’s back in
their seats at this point. 
 Say, “I now call for nominations,” or something similar. A player can
nominate someone by simply saying, “I nominate Bob,” or the like. When
you hear a nomination, repeat it back to the group—for example, “Sally
has nominated Bob.” This way, everyone knows that you have heard and
accepted the nomination. 
 There are a few limitations on nominations, as follows. If a player
tries to nominate in a way that’s not allowed, simply tell them it’s not
allowed. + Only one player may be nominated at a time. If a nomination
has been made but not yet voted on, another nomination cannot be made
yet. + Only alive players may nominate. Dead players can be nominated,
but this is almost never wise to do. + Each player may nominate only
once per day, and each player may be nominated only once per day. 
 Give the nominated player a chance to defend themself before tallying
the votes upon them. Ten to thirty seconds is about right, but longer is
okay too. 
 Tally the votes. Stand in the center of the circle, holding the
Grimoire in one hand and holding your other hand out straight toward the
nominee. Say the name of the player and that voting has started. 
 Then, slowly spin yourself clockwise, counting aloud the number of
votes as you go, until you come back to the nominee. (Counting aloud
helps undecided players make up their minds as to whether to vote or
not.) The nominee may vote for themselves, if they wish - their vote is
counted last. If a player has their hand up when your hand reaches them,
that’s a vote. If a player has their hand down, that’s not a vote. +
Each alive player may vote for as many players as they wish per day. +
Each dead player may vote for only one player throughout the rest of the
game. 
 Declare the result. The vote succeeds if: + The nominated player got
more votes than any other nominated player today, and + The number of
votes equals or exceeds half the number of alive players. 
 It is the middle of the game. Six players are alive, and four
players are dead. Steven gets three votes, so the vote succeeds. It
doesn’t matter whether or not the three votes came from alive or dead
players—there were three votes, which is half of the six alive
players. 
 If the vote succeeds, declare that the nominated player is about to
die. This player will be executed today… unless a future nominee gets
even more votes. Call again for nominations and tally the vote for the
next nominee, if any. (Any player who is about to die may still nominate
if they have not already nominated today.) 
 If the vote fails, the nominated player will not be executed. You can
call for more nominations, then tally the vote for the next nominee. 
 If the vote ties with a player nominated earlier today, then neither
nominated player will be executed. Call again for nominations and tally
the vote for the next nominee, if any. A nominated player must exceed
this tied number of votes to become “about to die” by execution. 
 Give a last call for nominations once you feel there have been enough
nominations and votes for today. Or if no players have nominated today,
give them this last reminder in case they weren’t paying attention. Step
into the circle and say, “Last call for nominations! Three…two…one…” to
give the players time to make rash last-minute decisions. If no one
makes another nomination, then declare that nominations are closed for
today. 
 Execution and Death 
 Execute the player who was about to die. Declare that this player
dies. + There is a maximum of one execution per day. After an execution,
the day phase is effectively over. + An execution is not required. If
the players decide not to nominate anyone, or the nominees don’t get
enough votes, or the voting ended in a tie between two nominees, the day
ends without an execution. 
 When a player dies, place a shroud token on their character token in
the Grimoire, and remove their night token from the night sheet. Ask the
player to flip their life token to its black side on the Town Square and
put a vote token on it. 
 Dead players—whether dead by execution, by the Demon, or by any other
means—follow these rules: + They immediately lose their ability. Their
ability can no longer affect the game in any way, and they are not woken
during the night to act. + They cannot nominate, and they may only vote
once for the rest of the game. When they choose to vote next, they
remove their vote token from their life token. Dead players without a
vote token cannot vote. + They still close their eyes during the night,
and may still talk as much as they want. In fact, because the dead
players have a voice and a vote, it is usually the dead players who
decide the final fate of the town. Dead players win if their team wins,
and lose if their team loses, just like alive players. 
 When a player dies, is their identity revealed? NO. Some
Storytellers more familiar with other social deduction games have a
habit of telling the group which character the dead player was playing.
In Clocktower, the identity of the dead remains a mystery. Dead evil
players may still wreak havoc if they are believed to be
good. 
 After the execution phase is over, take 30 seconds or so to prepare
your night phase. Some reminder tokens may need to be positioned, or
night tokens added or removed. When you are ready, declare that the day
is over, and ask all players to close their eyes. 
 Ending the Game 
 Once the first night phase is over, go to the day phase, then the
night phase again. (Remember to flip over your night sheet at the end of
your first day phase.) Repeat this until one team wins and the game
ends. 
 In Ravenswood Bluff…death is not the end. If the good team wins, all
good players win, whether alive or dead. If the evil team wins, all evil
players win, whether alive or dead. One team wins, and the other team
loses. There are never any neutral players. 
 Good wins if the Demon dies. Declare that good has won, and encourage
any handshakes, hugs, or screams of joy that you all wish. 
 Evil wins if there are only two players left alive. Declare that evil
has won, and encourage any fist bumps, finger guns, or debauched
partying that you wish. (Evil could win either because the Demon killed
a player or the wrong player was executed.) 
 If both teams would win at the same time, good wins. For example, if
the Demon dies but that leaves only two players left, the good team
wins. 
 Does the game always end when the Demon dies? Nope! Some
characters, such as the Scarlet Woman, keep the game going after the
Demon dies, without the good team knowing what has
happened. 
 In some intermediate and advanced editions, multiple Demons
can be alive at once. All Demons must die for good to win. Also, some
Demons might be good rather than evil. The good team still only wins
when all the Demons are dead, regardless of whether they are good or
evil. 
 The Nitty-Gritty 
 You don’t need to read this chapter until you’ve run a game or two or
if you run into a thorny rules question. 
 If the rulebook doesn’t say you can’t do something, you can do it.
Yes, players can nominate or vote for themselves. Yes, the Demon can
attack dead players. Yes, good players can lie. Yes, if you get to
choose “any player” at night, you can choose yourself or a dead player.
Yes, the dead can talk. No, dead players cannot nominate, and may only
vote to execute if they have a vote token. 
 Your word is law. If you are unsure of how to interpret a rule, or
the players are unsure of what a character’s ability does, you, the
Storyteller, are the final judge. Listen to the players, by all means,
but when you’re all unsure what the gods of Clocktower really meant by
that strange wording or character combination, make a call and stick by
it. Tell your players what your judgment is, and play on. 
 Character abilities break the core rules in this book. If a
character’s ability contradicts a core rule in this book, follow the
character’s ability. There is one exception: abilities cannot affect the
exiling of Travelers . 
 Abilities 
 Each character in Blood on the Clocktower has a unique ability, as
described on their character token, character sheet, and character
almanac. The character token and character sheet give plain-language
versions of the abilities that will serve you well in almost all cases,
but if you run into a conflict or strange interaction between abilities,
follow the rules written in their character almanac. 
 When used, abilities work immediately. For example, if the Demon
attacks the Fortune Teller, the Fortune Teller dies immediately—they do
not get to wake up later that night to use their ability. Or if the Monk
wakes up and protects the Empath, then soon after the Demon wakes up and
attacks the Empath, the Empath does not die. 
 Only tell the player what their character’s ability says they learn.
Secrets are secret. If the Imp dies and the Scarlet Woman becomes the
Imp, do the other players learn that this has happened? No. If the
Slayer uses their ability and nothing happens, do the players learn that
the Slayer is the Slayer? No. If the Monk protects the Washerwoman, does
the Washerwoman learn that she was protected? No. When the night ends,
do players learn which ability killed which player? No, they only learn
which players died, not how. 
 Abilities are lost immediately on death, poisoning, or drunkenness.
If a character dies, they lose their ability immediately and any of its
persistent effects end, so you can remove their reminder tokens. For
example, if a Poisoner poisons the Slayer at night, then the Poisoner
dies later that same night, the Slayer is no longer poisoned. Even
though the Poisoner’s ability says that it lasts “until dusk,” once the
Poisoner dies, they lose their ability and its persistent effect
ends. 
 If a player is drunk or poisoned, it is usually best to not remove
their reminder tokens, in case they become sober and healthy again, but
you can ignore them for the time being since drunk or poisoned players
have no ability, just like they were dead. For example, if the Innkeeper
protects the Chambermaid, but then the Innkeeper becomes drunk, the
Chambermaid stops being protected. Or if Steven poisons Amy, and then
Evin poisons Steven, then Amy is no longer poisoned. 
 Some character’s keep all or part of their ability when they die. If
the ability says “even if dead” or otherwise implies that the characters
ability works while dead, it does so. This ability is still lost if the
player becomes drunk or poisoned. 
 The Ravenkeeper is killed at night, then uses their ability.
Their ability says “If you die at night, you are woken to choose a
player: you learn their character”. Even though the Ravenkeeper is dead,
they still have their ability for a short while, because the character
text implies it. 
 If an ability does not say “choose,” the Storyteller makes the
decision. For example, if an ability on a character token or sheet says
“a player is poisoned each night,” then the Storyteller chooses who. If
the ability says “Each night, choose a player: they are poisoned,” that
means that character’s player chooses. 
 If a player tries to use their ability incorrectly, let them know.
Tell them verbally if it is day, or shake your head if it is night. The
Monk may not choose themselves, but if the Monk player chooses
themselves, shake your head no, then motion for them to choose a
different player. The Chambermaid must choose alive players, but if the
Chambermaid player chooses a dead player, shake your head no and motion
for them to choose again. 
 States 
 In Blood on the Clocktower, players can be lots of things— this
character or that one, drunk or sober, alive or dead, healthy or
poisoned. (Of course, we don’t mean literally.) These are called states.
Basically, they’re permanent elements of a player that are independent
from each other. 
 For example, if you’re drunk and change your character, you stay
drunk. If you’re poisoned, you can be drunk too. 
 Life and Death 
 At any given time, a player is either alive or dead. Generally,
players die during the day from execution and die at night from
characters’ abilities. 
 Execution is different from death. Sometimes, a player may be
executed but remain alive rather than die. Players may be executed
multiple times, and even dead players may be executed again, just to be
sure. Regardless of whether the group executes an alive or dead player,
this counts as the one execution allowed for the day. 
 A dead player cannot die again. If a dead player is attacked by the
Demon, for example, they do not die again, and the group does not learn
that they died last night. 
 Alignment and Character 
 At any given time, a player is either good or evil. Generally, a
character starts as either good or evil, but their alignment may change.
Sometimes, a Townsfolk will be evil. Sometimes, a Demon will be
good. 
 If a good player has an evil character, or an evil player has a good
character, turn their character token upside down to remind you that the
player’s alignment is opposite to the color of the token. 
 Character is independent of alignment. If a player changes alignment,
their character stays the same, and vice versa. For example, if the Goon
becomes evil, they’re still the Goon. Or if the Pit-Hag turns the good
Juggler into the Witch, then the Witch is still good. 
 The player learns of changes… If a player’s alignment or character
changes, they learn this at the earliest opportunity, in secret. You
will usually show the “You are” info token and then their new character
or alignment. The night sheet for the relevant edition will tell you
when an alignment or character changes, prompting you to wake the
changed player and inform them… with a few exceptions. Sometimes, a
player thinks they are a different character or alignment from their
true character or alignment. For example, the Drunk and the Lunatic are
designed to not know who they really are. 
 Drunkenness and Poisoning 
 At any given time, a player is either sober or drunk, and either
poisoned or healthy. Being drunk and being poisoned are the same thing.
Alive and dead players alike can be drunk or poisoned. 
 A drunk or poisoned player loses their ability. A drunk Slayer cannot
slay anybody, a poisoned Demon cannot kill anyone, a drunk Virgin cannot
cause an execution with their ability, a drunk Courtier cannot poison
anyone. If a player tries to use their “once per game” ability while
drunk or poisoned, they do not get to use it again. It is gone. 
 They can get their ability back. If a drunk player becomes sober
again, or if a poisoned player becomes healthy again, they regain their
ability. That said, if they used their “once per game” ability already,
then tough luck. 
 Do not tell them they are drunk or poisoned! Instead, act just like
they’re sober and healthy. For example, a drunk Monk still wakes each
night and chooses a player to protect…but that player won’t be
protected. A poisoned Demon still wakes to attack a player, but nobody
dies, and the Demon won’t know exactly why. Sometimes you may want to
hint to them that they are drunk or poisoned, such as showing the
Undertaker that the Mayor got executed, when nobody is claiming to be
the Mayor, but such times are exceedingly rare. 
 You can give them false information. If their ability gives them
information, you can give them false information. For example, a drunk
Empath still wakes each night and gets shown a finger signal, but you
can show the wrong number of fingers. A poisoned Undertaker gets shown
the character token of the player who died by execution today, but you
can show the wrong character token. You don’t have to give incorrect
info, but you can—and you usually should! 
 Drunkenness and poisoning do not cancel out. A poisoned drunk does
not become sober or healthy! They’re just both poisoned and drunk. 
 Abilities used on a drunk or poisoned player work normally. For
example, an Empath correctly learns the alignment of their drunk
neighbors. A Fortune Teller correctly identifies a poisoned Demon. If
the Duchess—a Fabled character that grants information to three
players—is visited by a poisoned Slayer, then the Slayer gains correct
information. In this case, the Duchess’s ability is working properly,
while the Slayer has no ability. 
 Always give correct information about the rules, even to drunk or
poisoned players. They need to be able to trust you at least that
much. 
 Tips. To run drunkenness and poisoning well, listen to the
bluffs of the evil players, and support those bluffs wherever possible.
For example, if the drunk Ravenkeeper chooses to learn about Dave, who
is the Baron, but bluffing as the Mayor. You can help the evil team if
you show the Ravenkeeper the Mayor token. If the drunk Ravenkeeper
instead chooses to learn about a good player, it can be helpful to show
an evil character token instead. Normally, you should make drunkenness
and poisoning as harmful as possible to the drunk or poisoned
player. 
 Madness 
 Madness is introduced in the Sects & Violets edition. It’s fairly
rare, with only about a dozen characters that cause madness over the
many editions. It is more like a real-world state than a game-state. You
can not look in the Grimoire and see which characters are mad or not,
but you can watch and listen to what people are saying to determine if
players are mad or not 
 When a player is mad about something, that means they’re trying to
convince the group that something is true. Some players are instructed
to be mad about something, and some players are instructed to not be mad
about something. 
 When a player is instructed to be mad about something, but they
aren’t, the Storyteller might give them a penalty. Likewise, if they are
mad about it, the Storyteller might give them a bonus. The specific
instructions, benefits and penalties of madness are written on the
character token, or on the character sheet. 
 The Mutant’s ability is “If you are mad about being an
Outsider, then you might be executed.” Alex, the Mutant player, is
trying to convince the group that he is the Mutant, an Outsider
character, so he is mad about being an Outsider. Alex might say
something obvious, like “I am the Mutant!” or “I am not a Townsfolk…but
I’m not going to tell you my character.” In this case, the Storyteller
is welcome to execute him. Alex may instead try something more subtle.
He might say something like “I am not going to tell you who I am, but
I’m definitely not the Mutant” with a mischievous grin on his face, or
he may even say nothing at all while other players accuse him of being
the Mutant. In either case, the Storyteller may judge that Alex is
trying to convince the group that he is the Mutant. In the first case,
he is saying one thing and meaning another. In the second case, he is
saying nothing at all but hoping that, because of it, the group will
conclude that he is the Mutant. In either case, the Storyteller might
execute him. Similarly, even if the Storyteller doesn’t spot Alex
telling anyone that he is an Outsider, but an evil player comes up to
the Storyteller in private and says, “Alex told me he is the Mutant,”
then that’s evidence enough that he’s is trying to convince the group
that he is the Mutant, so the Storyteller can execute him. 
 The Cerenovus’s ability tells a player that they should be
mad about being a specific character or else they are executed. The
Cerenovus chooses Amy to be mad about being the Sage, so Amy should do
her best to convince the group that she is the Sage, or else she risks
being executed. Amy simply sits there and says nothing, so she has
certainly acted the way a Sage would act—staying quiet—but she has not
tried to convince the group that she was in fact the Sage. Something
much more convincing would be required—a great start would be saying
“I’m the Sage. I lied about who I was yesterday so that the Demon would
attack me, but alas, it didn’t work. But, yes, no lies, I am the Sage.”
Because the Storyteller believes that Amy isn’t trying very hard to
convince people that she is the Sage, the Storyteller is free to execute
her. 
 Players are never forced to be mad. Players may say whatever they
want at any time – they are never compelled to say anything they do not
wish to say. With madness, however, they are incentivized to say
particular things and disincentivized to say others. If a player flat
out says, “I am mad,” or otherwise heavily implies it, then the
Storyteller can give them the appropriate penalty, or remove the
appropriate benefit. This kind of statement is usually a player’s way of
saying “I do not wish to be mad about this thing, and I would rather
take the penalty.” Even if a player merely implies that they are mad,
that counts. 
 A previously mad player can talk about it without penalty. Once they
are no longer mad, players can let the group know that they were mad
without suffering the consequences. For example, a player that was
picked by the Cerenovus two nights ago, but not last night, can happily
tell the group this without fear of execution. A dead Mutant no longer
has their ability, so need not fear its consequences. 
 You, the Storyteller, are the final judge about who is and who is not
behaving madly. There are no rules about what must or must not be said.
What matters is what you think that the player is trying to do. 
 Returning to the Mutant example above, if you think that the player
is genuinely trying to convince the group that they are not the Mutant,
they are not mad about being the Mutant. But if you think they are
trying to convince the group that they are an Outsider, however subtly,
then it’s curtains for them. Execute them at will. 
 Returning to the Cerenovus example above, if you think that the
player instructed to be mad by the Cerenovus is genuinely doing their
best to convince the group (verbally) that they are the Sage, then they
are mad that they are the Sage, and therefore safe. But if you believe
that they are just half-heartedly saying a few token words, and that
they pretty much expect to be disbelieved, or even if you think that
they are doing their best to be disbelieved, then they pay the penalty
of being executed at your leisure. 
 Generally, be firm in your judgment. If players come to believe that
all they need to do is put in a half-assed effort to avoid the madness
penalty, then that’s what they’ll do. It’s not the end of the world if
this happens, but the fun in being mad is in being forced to spread lies
and misinformation to your own team…and to not be able to own up to it
until you are sane again! 
 Advanced players should know how to play madness well, while beginner
players may be confused. Take this into consideration whether deciding
whether or not to penalize a player for madness. For example, if
Abdallah, an advanced player, is instructed to be mad about being the
Flowergirl, then he better be telling the group which days the Demon
voted and did not vote. If Abdallah was truly the Flowergirl and had
revealed his character to the group, there would be little reason for
him to withhold his Flowergirl information. Abdallah is an advanced
player, so he should not be getting any free passes. If he puts in a
solid effort in convincing the group he actually is the Flowergirl, then
he lives! 
 Beginner players should be given a little more leeway. As long as you
believe they are putting in a genuine effort to convince the group, then
you can be more forgiving. Players don’t have to actually convince
anyone to be classified as mad…they just need to put in a
sincere-looking effort. 
 Traveler Characters 
 Travelers are characters for players who turn up late or will need to
leave early. Travelers tend to have extremely effective abilities, but
gain little information. They have maximum power and minimum
responsibility. 
 Adding Travelers 
 To include a Traveler in your game, do the following: 1) Let the
Player Choose a Traveler. Take the player aside and give them the
Traveler sheet, which is kept under the Town Square. This sheet details
which Travelers are available for this game and what their abilities
are. Ask the player to choose one Traveler to play. + For
example, the five recommended Travelers for Trouble Brewing are the
Scapegoat, Beggar, Gunslinger, Bureaucrat, and Thief. The five
recommended characters all work well for the edition you are playing.
You can offer Travelers that are recommended for a different edition
instead, but they may not interact well with the characters in the
edition you are playing. For example, if you add an evil Apprentice to
Trouble Brewing, and the only Minion that the Apprentice can become is
the Baron, the Apprentice ability is wasted. If the Apprentice can
become the Poisoner, well, that’s a different story. Use your judgment
about which Travelers you wish to include if you go outside the
recommended five. 2) Choose Alignment. Tell the Traveler player
in private whether they are good or evil. If you made the Traveler evil,
they learn which player is the Demon, but not which players are the
Minions. 3) Adjust Grimoire. Prompt the Traveler to sit down, then put
their Traveler character token in your Grimoire to match their seating
position. Put evil Traveller tokens upside-down, and good Traveller
tokens right-way-up. 4) Place Life Token. Put the Traveler’s life token
on the Town Square. The Traveler’s life token is grey, not white. (This
represents that they are a Traveler, and it helps the good team remember
that Travelers do not count as players for evil’s “win when two players
are alive” victory condition.) 5) Inform Group. Declare that a Traveler
is now in play, which player and which character it is, and what their
ability is. (Do not declare their alignment.) 
 Travelers may enter the game at any time. Since Clocktower games usually go for about an hour and can include up to 20 people, someone who turns up ten minutes late can join in the fun when they arrive. They can play a Traveler even if they join five minutes after you have set up the game, but before you start the first night—just make sure they close their eyes on the first night, then let them choose a Traveler on the first day. 
 That said, we don’t recommend adding Travelers if the game is nearly
finished. Consider adding a Traveler only if there are seven or more
players alive. Adding a Traveler to the game on the last day, or even
the second-to-last day, may lead players to feel that their win or loss
was due to an unfair last-minute addition, not their own efforts. 
 Travelers can join the game before the first night, if you wish. They
will act on the first night if so. For all games larger than 15 players,
Travelers are included in the game and begin at the same time as the
other players. 
 If a player needs to leave before the game ends, and is kind enough
to tell you at the time the game is being set up, you can give them a
Traveler instead. This player may leave at any time—when they do, simply
remove their character token from the Grimoire, and remove their life
token from the Town Square. We recommend giving Travelers to these
players because a game cannot continue if the Demon leaves partway
through… and you never know which player will be the Demon. 
 Make Travelers good most of the time. You want to keep the game
balanced, so travelers should be evil only about a third of the time,
since an evil Traveler gives the evil team an extra vote, which is very
powerful. Adding multiple evil Travelers can be devastating. Adding
multiple good Travelers does give the good team some extra votes, but
the good Travelers do not know who is good or evil, unlike the evil
Travelers. 
 So, if just 1 Traveler joins the game, they should almost always be
good. If 2 Travelers join your game, they can both be good, but it is
usually most interesting to make 1 of them evil. If 3, 4 or 5 Travelers
enter the game, making 1 or sometimes 2 of them evil is usually about
right. 
 However, this is totally up to you. If you are running a game with 15
players, and 8 players are still alive, but all the Minions are dead,
feel free to make more Travelers evil than usual. Or if the good team is
getting hammered, make all the Travelers good. Every so often, though,
make the only Traveler in a game evil, just to keep the players guessing
what you are up to! 
 Running Travelers 
 Travelers work the same as other characters in most ways. They may
nominate, may vote, may act at night, may be killed by the Demon,
register as normal characters, lose their abilities when dead or drunk
or poisoned, and even get a vote token when they die. For example, an
Empath sitting between two Travelers will detect the alignment of those
Travelers. If the Demon attacks a Traveler, that Traveler dies.
Travelers differ from normal characters only in the ways described
below. 
 Travelers do not count toward the evil team winning when just two
players remain alive. For example, if five players are still alive, but
three of them are Travelers, then evil wins. + Why? This rule
exists because everybody knows that Travelers cannot be the Demon. Since
they arrived late, the Demon was already decided upon. Travelers get a
differently colored life token to put on the Town Square to remind all
players of this. 
 Travelers are exiled, not executed. Anytime during the day, you can
call for an exile of a Traveler, forcing them to die in the wasteland
beyond. Any players, even dead ones, may call for an exile. They may do
so before the Storyteller has asked for nominations, or afterward, when
nominations normally occur. Calling for an exile is not a nomination, so
a player who calls for an exile may also nominate someone on the same
day. 
 When a player calls for an exile, all the players decide on whether
they support or oppose the exile. This group decision works the same as
a vote for execution—with players raising hands, counted by the
Storyteller—but it is not considered a vote. 
 Any player, even dead ones, may support the exile of a Traveler. Dead
players that support an exile do not lose their vote token. 
 The process to exile a Traveler is not affected by abilities. It is
purely a group decision. For example, characters that modify votes
(Thief, Bureaucrat, etc.) do not modify support for exile. Even the
Butler may raise their hand to support an exile without their Master
raising their hand. 
 If at least half of the players support the exile, it succeeds, and
the exiled Traveler dies. This counts the total number of players in the
game, not the number of alive players. 
 Any number of Travelers may be exiled in a day. Exiles are not
executions, so an execution may still occur today. 
 Like in executions, each Traveler can only be called to exile once
per day. The players may believe that a Traveler is evil, and want to
kill them, but if there is not enough support to exile them today, then
they will have to try again tomorrow. 
 For more information on what specific Travelers do and how they can
benefit your game, read the Travelers & Fabled Almanac. 
 Fabled Characters 
 The Fabled are for you, the Storyteller. They’re more like a special
rule than a character all on their own. They let players join in a game
of Clocktower when they would otherwise not be able to, or they help the
game run smoother when a real-world issue comes up. The Fabled fix
problems that are outside the usual boundaries of the game. 
 For example, if a player has an intellectual disability that would
normally mean they wouldn’t be able to understand the game rules or
communicate with the group, a Fabled can allow them to join in. If a new
player is worrying they will die early, a Fabled can protect them. If
there are too many players for the time available, a Fabled can make the
game run faster. If someone is shy or soft-spoken and has trouble
getting the group’s attention, a Fabled can give them the floor without
interruption. If the game needs to end earlier than expected, a Fabled
can decide a winner. If you’ve made 
 your own character list using the Script
Tool , a Fabled can help it be more fun. 
 Use the Fabled only when you need them. They can be incredibly useful
in helping your games be more enjoyable and accessible to players of all
sorts, but adding them willy-nilly to every game is unnecessary and gets
old quickly. 
 To include a Fabled in your game, simply choose one, tell the group
which Fabled is in play, and put the Fabled character token in the
center of the Grimoire as a reminder about what the character does. Some
Fabled are added at the start of the game, while others can be added and
removed at any time. You may add multiple Fabled if you wish. 
 The Fabled cannot die or lose their ability. You are the Storyteller,
not a player, so your Fabled are immune to all game effects, including
death, drunkenness, and poisoning. Like Travelers, the Fabled do not
count as players for the “two players remain alive” victory condition
for the evil team. 
 For more information on what specific Fabled do and how they can
benefit your game, read the Travelers & Fabled Almanac . 
 How to be a Great Storyteller 
 Running Things Smoothly 
 You can end the game when victory is certain for one team. If all
remaining players are evil, then good cannot nominate the Demon, so you
can declare that evil wins. 
 Almost every time there are four players left alive, and the good
players execute a non-Demon player, you can end the game there. If you
were to continue the game after this execution, with just three players
alive, then the Demon would kill one of those players at night, ending
the game. There is little point in going through this process, as evil
already knows they have won. However, if a Monk or a Soldier is still
alive, then the Demon may not end up killing a player that night,
leading to another day of executions after all. 
 Use your best judgment when declaring a game over in this way. If
there is any way for the losing team to win—however unlikely it is—then
keep the game going. 
 During the night, confirm players’ choices with a downward finger
point. Sometimes, players will point at another player very quickly, or
will point from an angle that makes it hard for you to determine which
player they want to choose. Instead of guessing their intentions, walk
to the player you think they chose and point to them as well, pointing
vertically and downwards while your hand is above them. This makes it
very clear to the choosing player that you want to confirm their choice.
The choosing player nods to you. You nod to the choosing player. You
both understand exactly which player is the target. 
 This practice, or whatever works for you, is a good habit to get
into, as it avoids easy misunderstandings. 
 Moving around unnecessarily at night can put crafty players off your
scent. If you always walk to the same part of the circle the first thing
each night, and your shoes make noise, then players may be
understandably suspicious that the Demon is sitting in that area. If you
walk to different areas of the circle at random intervals, any noise you
make will not give away what is really happening. 
 Moving around tokens in the Grimoire is something you may need to do
when good players use their abilities, such as the Slayer or the
Juggler. When evil players bluff as these characters, pretend to move
tokens around the Grimoire in 
 the same manner. Veteran players will not be able to tell by looking
at your hand motions whether the player in question is bluffing or
not. 
 Quietly tap the shoulders or knees of the players that need to wake.
If your tapping makes noise, neighboring players may hear and get
suspicious of the tapped player. If the player is wearing thick clothing
and cannot feel light taps, then press noticeably with your hand twice
instead. 
 Keep the Grimoire level when moving about. The high sides of the
Grimoire should keep its contents hidden from the players’ view as long
as you don’t tip the Grimoire at a steep angle. Players may need to be
seated below the eye level of the top of the Grimoire in order to avoid
accidentally seeing inside. 
 Hold the Grimoire by the strong center pillar from above or
underneath. This way, you can have a free hand to move tokens around.
Don’t hold the Grimoire by the left and right edges alone, as this will
cause the book to snap closed…which could send tokens flying
everywhere! 
 Transport your Grimoire with the spine facing down. If you put your
Grimoire in a bag, having all its weight on the strong spine of the box
will help prevent fraying or bending of the box corners, and keep the
game in good condition. 
 Step into the circle, completely or in part, to make sure that you
are seen and heard when doing important things like running a vote or
saying “Last call for nominations! 3…2…1…”. You don’t want to hog the
limelight and demand attention at the expense of the players’ fun, so
this visual cue—being in the center of the circle—is an easy way to let
the group know you are doing something important. 
 If you make a mistake, just play on and do your best. Don’t try to
“balance the game” by giving the opposite team some benefit. This is
awkward to do well, and means that the good players can often backtrack
and find out what your mistake was by figuring out which team benefitted
by your correction and how. 
 All Storytellers make mistakes at some point. It happens. Maybe you
let the Solder be killed by the Demon? Maybe you forgot the Mayor was
the Drunk, and declared that good won because of it? Just roll with it.
If the mistake benefitted the winning team, then an apology to the
losing team might be in order. If the mistake benefitted the losing
team, then extra congratulations to the winning team! 
 It is usually best to tell the group that you made a mistake, but not
tell them what the mistake was. This way, they have enough information
to work with, but not so much that it is a detriment to the opposing
team. 
 One exception here: If you forget to wake a player that should have
woken during the night, you can either temporarily put all players back
to sleep in the morning and wake just that player, or you can request a
private chat with that player and resolve their ability then. For
example, if you forgot to wake the Butler, either put all players to
sleep and resolve the Butler’s ability, or just take the Butler aside
and ask who they wanted to choose as their Master last night. If you
think that you can fix a mistake in this way, go for it. 
 If you relax and take your time when setting up each night phase,
you’ll find that mistakes get less and less frequent. If you find that
you are being rushed, relax and take your time. If you are confused
about something, you guessed it: relax and take your time. 
 It is often best to answer questions privately. Most players’
questions will be about their character. When talking privately, you can
be more candid and responsive. When answering player questions publicly,
remember to refer to the name of the player, not their character, and to
talk in such a way that does not reveal excess information to the group.
For example, if the Empath asks you publicly, “What did the one-finger
hand signal mean last night?” and you answer “It meant a one,” then you
have publicly confirmed that the Empath is the Empath. Or if a Monk
asks, “How many players can I choose at night?” and you say “One,” then
you have revealed too much. In private, these conversations can happen
much more easily. 
 Discourage players from talking about their characters before the
first night begins. You may even want to ban this behavior. If players
consistently reveal their characters before the Demon has received its
three not-in-play characters to bluff as, then that pressures the Demon
to reveal who they are before they are ready. Even though it goes
against the “You may say whatever you want at any time” rule, stopping
good players from using this strategy may be necessary. Most players
understand that the game has not really begun until the first night
begins, and will not do this. However, if it becomes an issue, either
ask players to not do it, or put the Hell’s Librarian, one of the Fabled , into play. 
 You may have to do the same thing if players continually talk about
their abilities during the night while they are using them. If players
narrate their own abilities during the night—saying things like “I am
waking now. I am learning that the executed player was the
Soldier.”—then it can be extremely difficult for evil players to bluff,
as they would have to narrate actions during the night while they are
actually asleep. Instinctually, most players realize that the night
phase is a time to stay silent, or at least not to talk about their own
actions until morning. However, if it 
 becomes an issue, either ask players to not do it or put the Hell’s
Librarian into play. 
 It is best to keep the players in the circle while they are playing.
This prevents players from wandering all over the place, which causes
difficulty getting everyone together when nominations are called.
Keeping players within the circle also encourages veterans to talk to
newer players and for newer players to talk to each other. The last
thing that you want is your veterans wandering off in ones and twos,
leaving a new player sitting in the circle alone. 
 This also encourages players to leave their seats to talk in private
to players on the opposite side of the circle, as everybody is close
together. Players having private conversations with each other can be a
huge part of some games, and is something that really adds new levels of
strategy to both good and evil’s arsenal of tricks. 
 If you have spare moments during the day phase, you can read the text
on the in-play character tokens. This will help you learn exactly how
each character works and how they interact with the other characters in
play. This is surprisingly useful when running a new edition for the
first time. Some character text is subtle, and you may not notice
everything on first reading. You usually only need to know how the
in-play characters work. All other characters on the character sheet
have little or no bearing on the game. 
 Making Things Fun 
 You can ask, “How would you like to die?” to a player just before
they are executed. Doing this in public allows the dying player to come
up with all sorts of interesting and amusing ways that they would like
to be executed. Some players will want to take a long walk off a cliff,
while many will request death by more pleasurable means. 
 If you like, you can narrate the details of their death in response.
If you do so, it is best to keep things short, funny, and lighthearted.
Don’t make it awkward. For example, if a player answers, “I die by
getting stabbed in the back, at a banquet in my honor,” you can narrate
this death by saying something like “Well…the Townsfolk all gather
together and hold a big feast, and while you’re giving a speech,
somebody stabs you in the back with a cake fork, but you had already
died of boredom from the speeches earlier in the night.” If you instead
respond with a detailed description of which bones and muscles tear and
how painful it is, this will simply gross people out and make them
uncomfortable in continuing to play your games in the future. 
 Keep the vibe fun and frivolous if you can. Say nothing at all if you
can’t. Remember that people may have all sorts of things they are
squeamish talking about in public, 
 particularly anything sexual or too personal. This kind of witty
banter with the group requires a good feeling for what is and is not
appropriate for your group. 
 You can narrate as much or as little of the game as you wish. When
the game begins, setting the scene with a little flair, such as “It was
a dark and stormy night…” can add suspense and tone to your game. Also,
giving context and story to a player’s death at night, or adding little
verbal touches to the gathering of the Townsfolk during the day can set
your game up as something special. This requires some skill with words
as well as creativity and an ability to think on your feet. Thankfully,
it is entirely unnecessary. If you are uncomfortable, then skip this. A
mostly silent Storyteller can still create perfectly functional and
exciting games. The players themselves will create most of their own
fun. 
 Don’t break the rules. Even if it seems like it might be exciting to
do so. Don’t simply decide that players should die instead of remain
alive, or put in more or fewer Minions or Outsiders. The good players
are relying on all the information available to win. If they base their
logic on incorrect information, but they have no way of knowing that
their information is incorrect, then they are simply guessing, and it
will not be fun for them. Even if you think it might be wacky to
secretly not put a Demon in play, to add a Drunk out of the blue, or to
alter some other important rule, the players will probably not
appreciate this, as they will feel like a victory was not fairly won, or
a loss unfairly thrust upon them. 
 There are over 200 characters in the complete Blood on the Clocktower
collection, and one of them will do that crazy thing you want to do, in
a way that is fun and fair. 
 Let players make their own decisions. During the night, players will
sometimes seem to make odd choices. The Fortune Teller may choose the
same players each night. A Monk may protect a dead player. The Demon may
attack a revealed Ravenkeeper. The Poisoner may poison the Demon. You
never know what the player in question might be thinking, and it is best
to not nudge them toward choosing what you think is best. In the above
examples, the Fortune Teller may be testing to see if they are drunk,
the Monk may want a death tonight so that three players remain alive for
a Mayor victory, the Demon may want to get the Ravenkeeper out of the
way early, and the Poisoner may be about to bluff as the Soldier and use
the fact that no death occurred as evidence. If you let the players make
their own choices, they may not be the best choices, but they own
them. 
 Dealing with negative behavior is something you may have to do sooner
or later. 
 As is the case with all social gatherings, sometimes a player will
speak in a disrespectful tone to another player. Blood on the Clocktower
is a social game, which means social tools are useful in playing it.
There are good, fun ones like charm or humor, but one or two players may
get a little caught up in the excitement and revert to some of the more
negative social tools, such as shouting, bullying, or emotional
blackmail. Any player behavior that is unpleasant or otherwise
destructive to the good vibe of the game should be nipped in the bud.
This type of behavior is not acceptable, as other players may feel
uncomfortable at best or argumentative and victimized at worst. Every
player deserves to be in an environment where they feel accepted,
respected, and able to make their own decisions. 
 If you encounter negative behavior, take the player aside for a
private chat. Explain to them that their tone and behavior might be
unpleasant to one or more players. Stress that the problem is not the
person, but the behavior. Most players will immediately change how they
interact with others, as they hadn’t realized how heated they were
getting. They probably saw their actions as enthusiastic or intense, and
will appreciate that you took them aside to let them know otherwise. 
 Players that verbally justify their own bullying or aggression and
put the blame on others should not be welcome at any future games you
run until they can overcome this tendency. 
 Similarly, players that feign offense and hurt feelings might be
using negative social tools. For example, if a player pretends to be
really annoyed, hurt, or angry at being nominated for execution, that
can cause a bad vibe for the game. An upbeat, fun, and respectful mood
is more important than either team winning or losing. Period. 
 More importantly, you need to know whether any in-game expression of
distress is genuine, so that you can act appropriately and
compassionately to help resolve a situation. If a player abuses that
trust by pretending to be genuinely upset when they are not, you should
have a quiet word with that player to encourage them not to do so
again. 
 Judging what is and isn’t offensive or unpleasant can be tricky, so
use your best judgment. Censoring certain topics of conversation rarely
goes well, as it is usually a player’s tone, not their words, that are
problematic to others. Swearing, smack-talking, or vulgar or contentious
subjects might be fine depending on your group. Personal attacks,
insults, or anything that makes a player feel unsafe, hurt, or unheard
are not. 
 Taboo subjects or subjects perceived as taboo—such as death,
sexuality, gender, and the occult—may be a barrier for some people to
play. Similarly, particular characters may 
 offend some people or make others uncomfortable with playing. Whilst
those uncomfortable with games involving taboo subjects in general may
be better off finding a different game to play, you can cater to players
with strong dislikes for particular characters by making your own
character lists, with exactly the characters you want in play and none
that you don’t. For more on this, read “The Script
Tool” . 
 Shy players, paradoxically, tend to very much enjoy the intense
social interaction of Clocktower. Many will stay silent and simply
listen, taking part every so often by revealing information and putting
their vote to good use. However, they may let other players interrupt
them when trying to talk, or their voice may simply not be loud and
dominant enough to get the group’s attention. 
 If you notice a player in this situation, give them the floor every
so often. Silence the rest of the group and allow the shy player to say
what they wish to say uninterrupted. Never demand that the shy player
speak—simply ask if they wish to. 
 The best time to do this is when the shy player has been nominated,
as this is when the group’s attention is mostly on them anyway. Even
saying “You have been nominated. What do you have to say?” can be the
prompt they need to talk and be listened to, without you needing to
silence the rest of the group at all. 
 Gradually, over several games, you will probably find that the
previously shy player gains a sense of confidence and begins to
participate more. 
 Talkative players. Don’t silence a player unless the rest of the
group is silenced too. Telling a talkative player to be quiet while
letting everyone else speak will lead that player to feel they are being
treated unfairly, which they have been. Clocktower is a game about
talking, after all. If you need to silence a notorious chatterbox so
that you can be heard, or so a shy player can be heard, then silence the
rest of the group as well. 
 Get the game to last until the final day if you can. Games of
Clocktower are at their most exciting when there are just three or four
players alive, and a right or wrong execution can mean victory or
defeat. Games that end at this point tend to have more tension, more
drama, and a bigger cheer for the victorious team. So…how do you help
the game get to the final day? 
 Help the weaker team as much as possible. As the Storyteller, you are
not exempt from the rules, but there are many places where you can
decide to give the weaker team an invisible stroke of luck. 
 Is evil absolutely stomping good? You can give the drunk Empath
correct information some nights, or make the Spy that is executed
register as the Spy to the Undertaker. Maybe when the Mayor is attacked
at night, you could kill a Minion instead of a Townsfolk? 
 Is good absolutely demolishing evil? Think carefully about what
information you give to drunk or poisoned Townsfolk. The wrong
information at the right time can swing the fate of a game
dramatically. 
 It is never a good idea to flat-out decide the winning team by
exploiting a game rule. It’s pretty unfair to end the game by killing
the Tinker or by having an attacked Mayor kill the last evil player
alive, for instance. However, a player that has been told to be mad by
the Cerenovus can end the game by being executed, because that’s a
player’s choice much more than your choice. Do what will create the most
interesting game and the most climactic finish that the players feel
they earned themselves. 
 Listen to the bluffs of the evil players and run your game
accordingly. If the Imp is claiming to be the Slayer and wants to use
their ability, make sure it looks like their ability just didn’t work.
Put in the same effort as if they were actually the Slayer! If the Spy
is claiming to be the Fortune Teller, and is chosen by the Ravenkeeper,
then choose the Fortune Teller to be the good character that the Spy
registers as. 
 Evil players rely on you every so often to help make their lies sound
like the truth. Help them out wherever you can. 
 For example, if an evil player is claiming to be the Virgin and is
nominated, nothing will happen. To make it look like the evil player was
actually the Virgin, you can move your hands around the Grimoire to make
it look like you are putting the Virgin’s “No ability” reminder token by
the character token. After all, if the real Virgin was nominated, this
is what you would be doing. Beginner players won’t pick up on this
subtlety, but veterans might. 
 To encourage a big and exultant celebration at the end of the game,
declare the victory with some flair. Simply saying “evil wins” in a
quiet voice out of the blue doesn’t really encourage the evil team to
jump up and start high-fiving each other. Giving the announcement some
dramatic pause, getting the group’s attention before speaking in an
authoritative voice, or telling the players that high-fives and hugs are
acceptable can all be great ways to allow your winning team to celebrate
in the way they’d like. It’s their victory. They’ve earned it. And once
you have experienced the thrill of winning as the Demon in a 15+ player
game, you’ll know how cathartic it can be to cut loose in celebration at
this point. Even an unexpected loss after a game this size will be
remembered for months to come. 
 Allow creative and unexpected strategies. Clocktower is a game that
can be extremely fun when a player goes beyond what is normally accepted
in a social deduction game. Maybe your evil players start texting each
other during the game? That’s fine. Maybe good players keep lying
through their teeth about who is who, in order to put evil off the
scent? That’s great! Maybe players come back from talking to you in
private, and tell the group something different from what you said to
them? Super! Maybe the Spy took a photo of the Grimoire? Crafty! The
more creative your players get, the better. 
 The exceptions to this rule are obvious. Bullying and shaming are
never acceptable, and the rules of the game must be followed. Also,
deals that involve factors outside of the game should always be
discouraged. A player offering real money for votes, or promising some
service after the game ends, is not fun. Keep the vibe friendly and
you’ll have no problems. Basically, if the behavior is unorthodox and
creative and makes the game more interesting, allow it. If you think
that a behavior will make the game worse if it is continued, feel free
to disallow it. 
 Waking the Demon and the Minions together at the same time at start
of the game can be fun for the evil players to learn who each other are.
They get to make eye contact and share a moment of devilish
camaraderie. 
 Instead of waking the Minions and pointing to the Demon, then waking
the Demon and pointing to the Minions, just wake everyone together. You
will still need to show the “This is the Demon” and “These are your
Minions” info tokens, so that the players know who the Demon is. You
will also need to put the Minions back to sleep before showing the Demon
the three not-in-play character tokens as bluffs. So yeah—it is a little
tricky. 
 The Minions and Demon are normally woken separately to allow for
characters such as the Lunatic, Mole, and Magician to function, and to
ensure that the Minions do not see the Demon’s character bluffs. If the
character sheet does not include these characters, you can experiment
with which method works best for you. 
 Your role is to create a fun and engaging game. Just because you can
do something doesn’t mean you should. Are you messing with the players
in the service of fun, or indulging yourself at their expense? Just
because you can make the Recluse register as the Demon when the Imp
kills themself during the night, that doesn’t mean it will be fun or
balanced. Just because you can wake the drunk Snake Charmer and tell
them they are now the Demon, that doesn’t mean the player will have a
good time. Maybe they will? Maybe they won’t. You can give completely
useless 
 information to the Savant, but interesting and unique information is
better. 
 Each game, as the Storyteller, you will have a lot of interesting
decisions to make. Each decision should be made for the good of the game
and for the fun of the group. This will usually mean that you are
creating as much confusion as possible and leading the good team astray,
because that makes a fun game for all. But please keep the fairness of
the game as a whole in mind—you are there for the players’
enjoyment. 
 Going Further 
 The Script Tool 
 Once you are familiar with the characters from the three editions in
the core set, you may want to create your own unique character lists.
These are called “scripts”. 
 Do you have favorite characters that you like to put in nearly every
game? Have you thought of character combinations that would make
interesting and challenging situations for your players to deal
with? 
 Do you want to make a game with a Pit-Hag, a Saint, an Evil Twin, and
an Innkeeper? Maybe you want to combine the Klutz and the Spy? If you
have internet access, you can do so! 
 At BloodOnTheClocktower.com/script, you can create a script from any
combination of characters you own. This tool will also generate a night
sheet for a game with your custom character list, making it easy to
run. 
 Adding Travelers to one of your custom games is easy. Just do so
normally. Some Travelers may not be appropriate to mix with the
characters in play, some will be. You can decide on five Travelers that
merge well with your script before the game begins, or make a decision
in the moment. 
 Comparing scripts is a fun and challenging way to improve your
designs. It is often a good idea to start with just a few core
characters that you want to include, and build from there. Online at
BloodOnTheClocktower.com, or on your local Facebook or Meetup group,
there should be a community active in comparing their creations. You are
welcome to join. 
 Some Fabled characters are designed to help you create unique and
interesting games. Creating your own script is an art, and it may take a
few tries to find something you are happy with. Luckily, you already
have some Fabled characters to help you make your game run smoothly.
Maybe you have an overabundance of evil in the game? Or only a dozen
characters? 
 Fabled characters can also make sure your game has an unknown number
of Outsiders, or add extra misinformation when needed, or resolve
situations where character abilities clash. 
 See the Travelers & Fabled Almanac for more information on using
Fabled characters to make your game more balanced, and more fun for all
players. 
 Handling strange character interactions is more art than science.
When you create your own scripts, you’ll end up with some odd situations
indeed. Maybe you’ll have an evil Saint? Or end up with two Philosophers
wanting to turn into the same character at the same time? With over two
hundred characters in the works, some weird situations will arise. While
the Clocktower rules are written with this is mind, there may be times
where you are uncertain about how to two characters combine. Use your
best guess. As the Storyteller, your decision is final—but make sure you
tell the players that you’re making a ruling. It might not be the best
call, but at least it will be a clear one. 
 Teensyville lies just a few days’ walk from Ravenswood Bluff. You can
use the Script Tool to build Teensyville games, which include only a few
characters on the character sheet. Because of this, players will have an
easier time knowing which characters are in play, letting them
strategize more. Teensyville games are perfect for 5 or 6 players and
can include characters from any editions. 
 Growing Your Clocktower Group 
 The more, the merrier. The larger your Clocktower group, the more fun
everyone will have, and the more varied opponents and allies that
everyone will get to play with. This section gives some ways to grow
your group. 
 Join the Facebook group if you need more players for your games or
want to participate in games that others run. Each city should have a
Clocktower Facebook group with your city in the title, such as “Blood on
the Clocktower—Los Angeles.” These meeting places are a great way to get
to know more players in your area. If your city doesn’t yet have a
Facebook group, feel free to start one! If Facebook is the devil, then
perhaps Meetup.com, or some other similar online tool may prove to be a
useful way to connect with players. 
 Encourage your players to Storytell. Once you have mastered the
basics of the Storyteller role, it’s time to get into the game and
dominate with your superior knowledge! If you encourage players to take
on the Storyteller role, they too can see how rewarding it is, and will
want to invite their friends too. Players are usually pretty keen to get
online and start designing scripts, so they’ll need the basic skills to
run the games they design. They can learn by reading this rulebook or by
watching and helping you Storytell for a game or two, then having you
watch and help them Storytell for a game or two. 
 Be a leader. The Storyteller role usually has an element of
authority. It is also usually the Storyteller that organizes game times
and locations. Generally speaking, the players 
 will look to you for times and dates and a little social leadership.
Treat them well. Listen to what they want. Tailor games to their
interest and play style. Above all, be welcoming and helpful to the new
players in your group. Taking care of just the veterans means that your
group will not grow. If you take care of the new players—explain the
rules to them, help them out when they have questions, and keep a
friendly and positive vibe—then new players will bring new players, and
your group will continue to grow. 
 Encourage veterans to be good to the new players. Many enthusiastic
veteran players tend to overload new players with information. Too many
unimportant game rules, too many character exceptions, and too many
pieces of strategy advice all tends to confuse, not enlighten.
Everything a new player needs to know to start playing is explained on
the rules sheet. They can pick the rest up as they go. 
 If your veterans keep things simple and help out the new players, the
new players will stay. This benefits the veterans too, as they may make
helpful in-game allies to secure a victory. Many a game has been won or
lost by a helpful veteran talking to the new players and getting them
involved, for good or evil. 
 For new players, keep it simple. Do not overload them with
information. Instead, give them just enough to get involved and have a
good time. Encourage your veterans to do the same. Whilst most players
will pick up the basics sometime during their first game, it is usually
counterproductive to tell a new player all the rules and major
strategies at once. This can totally overwhelm them. 
 The rules sheet is designed to get new players into playing the game
with a minimum of fuss. All the extra rules— drunkenness, madness,
strange character interactions—they can learn as they play. Your
veterans will probably be more than happy to explain how these
characters work on your behalf. Veterans can be great for helping new
players get into the game, but only if they take things at the right
pace. Encourage them to engage the new players, particularly if they are
dead. After all…they are probably on the same team. 
 Some new players will drastically underestimate or misunderstand how
a character works, and ask you for strategy advice. Sometimes, you’ll
notice that a new player looks completely confused but isn’t asking for
help. Feel free to have a private chat with them and give them a helping
hand. It is never a good idea to give them one single piece of strategy
advice, as this implies that this is the only way to play a particular
character – you don’t want a player to ever feel that they “should” act
a certain way or employ a particular strategy. Either give them a few
pieces of strategy advice, from which they can choose, or let them
figure out 
 their own strategy in their own way, even though they may need a
nudge in the right direction. 
 For example, the Ravenkeeper and the Virgin are two characters that
most beginner players think are weak. The Ravenkeeper gets the best
information of any character in Trouble Brewing, but has to trick the
Demon into attacking them first. The Virgin, when nominated by a
Townsfolk, confirms that 2 players are good… which is fantastic
information, albeit at the price of a death. Instead of saying to a
Ravenkeeper or a Virgin player “you should do X” or “you should say Y,”
let them know exactly why and how their character is powerful, and they
will often figure out their own strategy from that point onwards. 
 Give strategy advice to new players only if they really need it. New
players have to quickly learn a lot of information— how to win, how
executions work, how their character works, what other characters are in
the game. What they do not need is someone telling them (even if they
ask for it!) that they “should do this” or “should not do that.” If
players feel that they “should” do or not do something, then they are
not making an independent choice about how to play the game. Clocktower
has many interesting strategies that will emerge through play, and new
players will figure out what to do as they become familiar with the
basic rules. If you absolutely must give advice to a new player about
what to do, keep it simple, such as telling good players to “reveal
their character, either to the group, or to someone that they trust, and
listen to what others are saying,” and stick to telling evil players to
“pick a good character to pretend to be,” and to make sure they know how
that character works, in case people ask them questions. 
 Helping a new player find their own strategies, or giving them a few
options for what they can do or say, is much more helpful than a hard
“you should do this.” They may also need a helping hand to understand
how their character works or what their character’s strengths and
weaknesses are. 
 To grow, what most new players really need isn’t great strategy
advice. They need to know that it is okay if they die. They need to know
that they are free to say whatever they want to whoever they want, in
public or in private. They need to feel like they are a valuable part of
the team. If these bases are covered, they will enjoy your game and come
back for more. 
 Use Travelers. Whenever possible, encourage late players to join the
game as Travelers. Many players will simply want to watch a game in
progress, feeling that joining the game late is a bit of a faux pas.
Nothing could be further from the truth! Travelers are some of the most
powerful, flexible, and downright fun characters in the game, and their
arrival 
 balances out a game in progress. Most players will want Travelers to
join their game, as most Travelers are good! Keeping this “join at any
time” vibe happening will make your games more accessible to
everyone. 
 Use the Fabled. These characters are designed so you can include all
types of players and encourage their participation. The Angel helps new
players enjoy their first game without fear of death. The Revolutionary
helps players join in when they would otherwise be incapable. The
Buddhist gets your veterans to be silent while the new players
contribute. If you know your Fabled, your game will get a reputation as
being super inclusive, and that’s a good thing. 
 Check out the Strategy Guide online. For in-depth strategy on each
character, go to the wiki. If your group comes up with an original or
crazy way to play a particular character, edit the online guide and have
your advice heard. Find all this on the Blood on the
Clocktower wiki . 
 The Editions 
 Your Blood on the Clocktower box set comes with three editions for
you to try: Trouble Brewing, Bad Moon Rising, and Sects & Violets.
We highly recommend that you get familiar with Storytelling Trouble
Brewing before moving on to these more complex editions. The character
almanac for Trouble Brewing offers many helpful reminders of game
concepts that make it a useful reference as you play, while the more
complicated editions only give reminders for newly introduced concepts
and particularly intricate interactions. 
 More editions will be available soon. Each edition has 25 new and
unique characters tailored to create a unique gaming experience, and the
strategies needed for victory vary drastically with each. Some editions
encourage whispers and secrets, others open sharing. Some encourage pure
logic, others wild and crazy bluffing. If you would like to take your
Clocktower games to the next level, visit our site for more
information. 
 All characters included in these editions are also listed in the
Script Tool, so you can mix and match them with other characters you
own, so you can create your own games! 
 Trouble Brewing 
 Beginner. Recommended for players and Storytellers
new to Blood on the Clocktower or to social deception games.
 Trouble Brewing has a little bit of everything. Some
characters passively receive information, some need to take action to
learn who is who, while some simply want to bait the Demon into
attacking them. Both good and evil can gain the upper hand by making
well-timed sacrifices. Trouble Brewing is a relatively straightforward
Demon-hunt, but evil has a number of dastardly misinformation tricks up
their sleeves, so the good players best question what they think they
know if they hope to survive. 
 Bad Moon Rising 
 Intermediate. Recommended for players who are
proactive, dedicated to working as a team, and don’t fear dying.
 Bad Moon Rising is a death extravaganza. Demons kill
multiple times per night, and Minions get in on the action too. Good
players can take great risks to gain reliable information, but may
accidentally kill their friends in the process. Luckily, there are many
options to keep players alive long past their use-by date. If the good
team cannot determine which specific Minions and Demons are in play,
however, their doom is all but certain. 
 Sects and Violets 
 Intermediate. Recommended for players who want to
do wild and unexpected things, pushing the limits of what can be
achieved in a bluffing game.
 Sects & Violets is the craziest of the three editions
included in the base set. Good characters get amazing information each
and every night. However, the evil team is extremely varied and
threatening and can throw massive confusion into the mix. Characters
change alignment. Players change characters. Even the evil team can lose
track of who is who. This is also the first appearance of madness, which
throws all manner of spanners into the works. 
 Garden of Sin 
 Intermediate. Recommended for cool heads, puzzle
solvers, and Storytellers that like to get creative.
 Garden of Sin is a catastrophe of pure logic. Every single
good character gains some information, even the Outsiders. The Demons do
not attack during the night, but win automatically after a set number of
days. The leisurely pace gives plenty of time to put all the pieces of
the puzzle together, but strange logical conditions and counterintuitive
information reversals mean that the good team will have to use their
combined brain power—or perish. 
 The Tomb 
 Intermediate. Recommended for bullies,
ne’er-do-wells, and anyone who lusts for all the power and none of the
responsibility.
 The Tomb is raw power. The Townsfolk here are some of the
most powerful in existence…but they must use their abilities wisely, as
information is sparse. Sacrifices of the good are necessary to determine
who is who. 
 Midnight in the House of the Damned 
 Expert. Recommended for those comfortable with
risk, challenge, and extremely ambitious bluffing.
 Midnight in the House of the Damned is not for the faint of
heart. Many characters flat-out break major rules or even make their
own. Many booby traps await the careless Townsfolk or the ambitious
Minion. Many characters can win or lose the game singlehandedly, so
crafty and adventurous bluffs can yield massive rewards. However, just
figuring out who exactly is on your team can be a challenge in itself.
All hope abandon, ye who enter here. 
 The Greatest Show on Earth 
 Beginner through Expert. Recommended for players
who want some extra spice, or Storytellers who want to create some
extremely bizarre and uniquely challenging situations for their players.
 The Greatest Show on Earth is a collection of fifty-ish
extra characters for you to add to any Blood on the Clocktower games
that you design yourself, using the Script Tool. Unlike the other
editions, this one doesn’t include a suggested character list. Many
characters too wild and unusual to be included in the other editions
have found their way to this collection. 
 Glossary 
 Ability : The special power or penalty of a
character, printed on its character token, the character sheet for the
chosen edition, and the character almanac for the chosen edition. The
definitive text of the ability is printed in the “How to Run” section of
the character almanac. Characters have no ability when dead, drunk, or
poisoned. 
 About to die : The player who has enough votes to be
executed and more votes than any other player today. 
 Alignment : The team that a player is currently on.
Alignment is either good or evil. If a player changes alignment, their
character stays the same. If a player changes character, their alignment
stays the same. Players know their own alignment. 
 Alive : A player that has not died. Alive players
have their ability, may vote as many times as they wish, and may
nominate players. As long as 3 or more players are alive, the game
continues. 
 Alive neighbors : The two alive players that are
sitting closest—one clockwise, one counterclockwise—to the player in
question, not including any dead players sitting between them. Ally: A
player of the same alignment. 
 Character : The role that a player plays, such as the
Butler, as listed on the character sheet and character almanac for the
chosen edition. Characters may be in play or not in play. 
 Character sheet : The cardboard sheets that list all
of the possible characters and their abilities for the chosen edition.
Character token: The large round token that each player gets at the
start of the game that indicates their character. Players cannot look at
each other’s character tokens. 
 Choose : This word in a character’s ability indicates
that their player decides something. If this word is absent, the
Storyteller decides instead. 
 Clocktower : Blood on the Clocktower, the world’s
greatest bluffing game! 
 Day : The game phase in which players have their eyes
open, talk with each other, and vote for an execution. Each day is
followed by a night. Each night is followed by a day. 
 Dawn : The end of a night, just before the next day
begins. Characters that act “at dawn” act after almost all other
characters. 
 Dead : A player that is not alive. Dead players may
only vote once more during the game. When a player dies, their life
token flips over and they gain a vote token, they gain a shroud in the
Grimoire, they immediately lose their ability, and any persistent
effects of their ability immediately end. 
 Declare : State to the group so that everyone can
hear you. 
 Demon: A type of character that begins evil. If the Demon dies, the
good team wins. Demons usually kill players at night and have some other
ability that harms the good team. 
 Demon info : Shorthand on the night sheet,
representing the information that the Demon receives on the first night
if there are 7 or more players. The Demon learns which players are the
Minions, and learns 3 good characters that are not in play to help them
bluff. 
 Demon, The : The player that has the Demon character.
In a game with multiple Demons, each alive Demon player counts as “The
Demon”. 
 Drunk : A drunk player has no ability but thinks they
do, and the Storyteller acts like they do. If their ability would give
them information, the Storyteller may give them false information. Drunk
players do not know they are drunk. 
 Dusk : The start of a night, just after the players
close their eyes. Characters that act “at dusk” act before almost all
other characters. Abilities that last “until dusk” end as soon as the
players go to sleep. 
 Each night : Every night phase. 
 Each night*: Shorthand on character sheets and tokens, meaning “Every
night phase except for the first night phase.” 
 Edition : A scenario of Clocktower that contains a
set of tokens, character sheets, and a character almanac. For example,
Trouble Brewing. Each edition has a unifying theme, strategy, and
tone. 
 Evil : The evil alignment. Minions and Demons (red
characters) start as evil. Evil wins when just 2 players are alive, not
including Travelers. 
 Evil character : Minions and Demons. 
 Execution : The group decision to kill a player other
than a Traveler during the day. There is a maximum of one execution per
day, but there may be none. A nominated player is executed if they got
votes equal to at least half the number of alive players, and more votes
than any other nominated player. 
 Exile : The group decision to kill a Traveler during
the day. There may be any number of exiles per day, including none. Any
players may support an exile, even dead players without a vote token.
Abilities cannot affect an exile decision in any way. Though an exile is
similar to a vote for execution, the process is not a vote, and an exile
is not an execution. See Vote and Execution. 
 Fabled : A type of character for the Storyteller.
Fabled characters are neutral, chosen by the Storyteller publicly, and
usually make the game fairer in strange situations. 
 False info : False information, such as a false
statement, gesture, or character token. The Storyteller may give false
information when an ability malfunctions, such as when the player is
drunk or poisoned. See True info. 
 First night : The night phase that begins the game.
Some characters act only during the first night. Some characters act
during each night except the first. Players may talk about their
characters only after the first night. 
 Good : The good alignment. Townsfolk and Outsiders
(blue characters) start as good. Good wins if the Demon dies. 
 Good character : Townsfolk and Outsiders. 
 Grimoire : The box that stores the Clocktower pieces,
held and updated by the Storyteller. Players cannot look in the
Grimoire. The Grimoire shows the actual states of all the characters,
such as who is alive or dead, who is poisoned, who is acting at night,
etc. 
 Healthy : Not poisoned. 
 Info : Information. 
 Info token : Rectangular tokens that give information
and are sometimes shown to players at night. For example, the “This is
the Demon” info token. 
 In play : A character that exists in the current
game, either alive or dead. 
 Leaf : The small green and orange symbols on many
character tokens that help the Storyteller run the game. Green leaves on
the top show the number of reminder tokens to add to the Grimoire. A
green leaf on the left shows that the character needs a night token on
the first night. A green leaf on the right shows that the character
needs a night token on each night except the first. An orange leaf means
that the character setup is different than normal for this game. 
 Life token : These tokens are placed on the Town
Square, corresponding to the players’ seating positions, and show which
players are alive or dead. The parchment side shows that the player is
alive, and the black side shows that the player is dead. 
 Lose : At the end of the game, one team will lose.
Dead and alive players lose as a team. Evil loses when the Demon dies.
Good loses when there are only two alive players, not including
Travelers. 
 Mad : A player who is “mad” about something is trying
to convince the group that something is true. Some players are
instructed to be mad about something - if the Storyteller thinks that a
player has not put effort to convince the group of the thing they are
mad about, then a penalty may apply. Some players are instructed to not
be mad about something if the Storyteller thinks that a player has tried
to convince the group of that thing, then a penalty may apply. 
 Might : Shorthand on character sheets and tokens.
Something that “might” happen means the Storyteller chooses whether it
happens or not. 
 Minion : A type of character that begins evil.
Minions have abilities that help the evil team. There are usually 1 to 3
Minions per game. The Traveler sheet lists the number of Minions in the
current game. 
 Minion info : Shorthand on the night sheet,
representing the information that the Minions receive on the first night
if there are 7 or more players. The Minions learn which other players
are Minions, and which player the Demon is. 
 Neighbors : The two players, whether dead or alive,
sitting one seat clockwise and counterclockwise from the player in
question. 
 Night : The game phase in which players close their
eyes, and certain characters wake to act or receive information. The
game begins with the night phase. Each day is followed by a night. Each
night is followed by a day. 
 Night sheet : The sheet the Storyteller uses to know
which characters act in which order at night. The night sheet has one
side to use on the first night and one side to use on all other
nights. 
 Night token : The tokens that the Storyteller puts
next to the night sheet to indicate which characters may need to act
tonight. Which night tokens are needed is indicated by the leaves on the
left and right of each character token. 
 Nomination : The act of declaring a group vote to
execute a player, which is echoed by the Storyteller. Players may
nominate once per day, and can be nominated once per day. Only alive
players may nominate. 
 Not in play : A character that does not exist in the
current game, but is on the character sheet. 
 Once per game : An ability that can be used only
once. If a player uses their ability, even while drunk or poisoned, they
cannot use their ability again. If a player dies without using their
once per game ability, they lose it. 
 Outsider : A type of character that begins good.
Outsiders have abilities that are unhelpful to the good team. The
Traveler sheet lists how many Outsiders are in the current game. 
 Player : Any person who has an in-play character, not
including the Storyteller. 
 Poisoned : A poisoned player has no ability but
thinks they do, and the Storyteller acts like they do. If their ability
would give them information, the Storyteller may give them false
information. Poisoned players do not know they are poisoned. See
Drunk. 
 Private : Anything whispered between two players, or
between a player and the Storyteller, so that the other players do not
hear it. 
 Public : Anything said or done in such a way that
most players, including the Storyteller, are aware that it happened. 
 Register : A player that “registers as” a specific
character or alignment counts as that character or alignment for game
rule purposes, and for other player’s abilities. For example, if a good
player “registers as evil,” they are still good (and win when good
wins), but they count as evil to characters that detect evil.
Registering as a character does not impart that character’s ability. 
 Reminder token : The small tokens that help the
Storyteller remember all sorts of things. Reminder tokens are specific
to a certain character. 
 Rules sheet : The sheet that is read out at the
beginning of a game so that new players can learn the important rules.
New players may instead read the sheet privately if they wish. 
 Script Tool : The online character list generator,
which allows you to design scripts from any combination of character
tokens you own. Use the Script Tool at
BloodOnTheClocktower.com/script. 
 Script : A collection of characters, created via the
Script Tool, that can be printed to make character sheets. 
 Setup sheet : The sheet that details what the
Storyteller needs to do before beginning a game. 
 Shroud : The black and grey banner-shaped token used
in the Grimoire to indicate that a player is dead. 
 Sober : Not drunk. 
 Starts knowing : Shorthand on character sheets and
tokens. A character that “starts knowing” gains knowledge on the first
night or, if such a character is created mid-game, at that point
instead. 
 State : A current property of a player. A player is
always either drunk or sober, either poisoned or healthy, either alive
or dead, and either mad or sane. 
 Storyteller : The person who runs the game. The
Storyteller keeps the Grimoire, follows the rules of the game, and makes
the final decision on what happens when a situation needs
adjudication. 
 Team : All players sharing an alignment. “Your team”
means “You and all other players that have the same alignment as
you.” 
 Think : A player who “thinks” they are a different
character receives a character token that does not match their true
character in the Grimoire. The Storyteller pretends to this player that
they are this false character. 
 Tomorrow : The day phase and the night phase
following the current night phase. 
 Townsfolk : A type of good character. Townsfolk have
abilities that help the good team. Usually, most in-play characters are
Townsfolk. The Traveler sheet lists the number of Townsfolk in the
current game. 
 Town Square : The grey cardboard sheet in the center
of the seats. The Town Square has the player’s life tokens and vote
tokens on it, and the Traveler sheet under it. 
 Traveler : A type of character for players who are
late to join or who expect to leave early. The player chooses their
character, and the Storyteller chooses their alignment. Travelers have
great power, but may be exiled by the group. 
 Traveler Sheet : The sheet placed under the Town
Square. It lists how many Outsiders and Minions are in the current game
and what the Travelers’ abilities are. 
 True info : True information, such as a true
statement, gesture, or character token. The Storyteller must always give
true information about the rules. See False info. 
 Type : A class of character—Townsfolk, Outsider,
Minion, Demon, Traveler, or Fabled. 
 Vote : Raising a hand when the Storyteller is
counting the number of players in favor of an execution. Players may
vote per day. A dead player may only vote once for the rest of the game.
The votes are tallied clockwise, ending with the nominated player. The
exile process, though similar, is not a vote. See Exile. 
 Vote token : The round white circular token that is
put on a player’s life token when they die. When this dead player votes,
they remove their vote token and cannot vote for the rest of the
game. 
 Wake : A player opening their eyes at night. The
Storyteller wakes a player by tapping twice on the knee or shoulder, and
wakes all players by saying “eyes open, everybody” at dawn. 
 Win : At the end of the game, one team will win.
Alive and dead players lose as a team. Good wins when the Demon dies.
Evil wins when there are only two alive players, not including
Travelers. 
